# 2023

# Internal Revenue Service

# Instructions for Form 1120

U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return

Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise noted.

# Future Developments

For the latest information about developments related to Form 1120 and its instructions, such as legislation enacted after they were published, go to IRS.gov/Form1120.

# Contents

|Future Developments|1|
|---|---|
|What’s New|1|
|Photographs of Missing Children|1|
|The Taxpayer Advocate Service|2|
|Direct Deposit of Refund|2|
|How To Make a Contribution To Reduce Debt Held by the Public|2|
|How To Get Forms and Publications|2|
|General Instructions|2|
|Purpose of Form|2|
|Who Must File|2|
|When To File|3|
|Where To File|4|
|Who Must Sign|4|
|Paid Preparer Authorization|4|
|Assembling the Return|5|
|Tax Payments|5|
|Estimated Tax Payments|5|
|Interest and Penalties|6|
|Accounting Methods|6|
|Accounting Period|7|
|Rounding Off to Whole Dollars|7|
|Recordkeeping|7|
|Other Forms and Statements That May Be Required|7|
|Specific Instructions|8|
|Period Covered|8|
|Name and Address|8|
|Identifying Information|8|
|Employer Identification Number (EIN)|9|
|Total Assets|9|
|Initial Return, Final Return, Name Change, or Address Change|9|
|Income|10|
|Deductions|11|
|Schedule C. Dividends, Inclusions, and Special Deductions|18|
|Schedule J. Tax Computation and Payment|20|
|Schedule K. Other Information|22|
|Schedule L. Balance Sheets per Books|26|
|Schedule M-1. Reconciliation of Income (Loss) per Books With Income per Return|27|
|Schedule M-2. Analysis of Unappropriated Retained Earnings per Books|27|
|Principal Business Activity Codes|29|
|Index|32|

# Photographs of Missing Children

The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may be displayed.

Department of the Treasury

Jan 17, 2024

Cat. No. 11455T
---
appear in instructions on pages that would otherwise be blank.

You can help bring these children home by looking at the photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

# The Taxpayer Advocate Service

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the IRS that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer rights. TAS's job is to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and knows and understands their rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.

As a taxpayer, the corporation has rights that the IRS must abide by in its dealings with the corporation. TAS can help the corporation if:

- A problem is causing financial difficulty for the business;
- The business is facing an immediate threat of adverse action;
- The corporation has tried repeatedly to contact the IRS but no one has responded, or the IRS hasn't responded by the date promised.

TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Local advocates' numbers are in their local directories and at TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The corporation can also call TAS at 877-777-4778.

TAS also works to resolve large-scale or systemic problems that affect many taxpayers. If the corporation knows of one of these broad issues, please report it to TAS through the Systemic Advocacy Management System at IRS.gov/SAMS.

For more information, go to IRS.gov/Advocate.

# Direct Deposit of Refund

To request a direct deposit of the corporation's income tax refund into an account at a U.S. bank or other financial institution, attach Form 8050, Direct Deposit of Corporate Tax Refund. See the instructions for line 37.

# How To Make a Contribution To Reduce Debt Held by the Public

To help reduce debt held by the public, make a check payable to “Bureau of the Fiscal Service.” Send it to:

Bureau of the Fiscal ServiceAttn: Dept GP.O. Box 2188Parkersburg, WV 26106-2188
Or, enclose the check with the corporation's income tax return. In the memo section of the check, make a note that it is a gift to reduce the debt held by the public. For information on how to make this type of contribution online, go to www.treasurydirect.gov and click on “How to Make a Contribution to Reduce the Debt.”

Do not add the contributions to any tax the corporation may owe. See the instructions for line 35 for details on how to pay any tax the corporation owes. Contributions to reduce debt held by the public are deductible subject to the rules and limitations for charitable contributions.

# How To Get Forms and Publications

Internet. You can access the IRS website 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, at IRS.gov to:

- Download forms, instructions, and publications;
- Order IRS products online;
- Research your tax questions online;
- Search publications online by topic or keyword;
- View Internal Revenue Bulletins (IRBs) published in recent years;
- Sign up to receive local and national tax news by email.

Tax forms and publications. The corporation can view, print, or download all of the forms and publications it may need on IRS.gov/FormsPubs. Otherwise, the corporation can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order and have forms mailed to it.

# General Instructions

# Purpose of Form

Use Form 1120, U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return, to report the income, gains, losses, deductions, credits, and to figure the income tax liability of a corporation.

# Who Must File

Unless exempt under section 501, all domestic corporations (including corporations in bankruptcy) must file an income tax return whether or not they have taxable income. Domestic corporations must file Form 1120, unless they are required, or elect to file a special return. See Special Returns for Certain Organizations, later.

Entities electing to be taxed as corporations. A domestic entity electing to be classified as an association taxable as a corporation must file Form 1120, unless it is required to or elects to file a special return listed under Special Returns for Certain Organizations. The entity must also file Form 8832, Entity Classification Election, and attach a copy of Form 8832 to Form 1120 (or the applicable return) for the year of the election. For more information, see Form 8832 and its instructions.

Limited liability companies (LLC). If an entity with more than one owner was formed as an LLC under state law, it is generally treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and files Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income. Generally, a single-member LLC is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner and reports its income and deductions on its owner's federal income tax return. The LLC can file a Form 1120 only if it has filed Form 8832 to elect to be treated as an association taxable as a corporation. For more information about LLCs, see Pub. 3402, Taxation of Limited Liability Companies.

Corporations engaged in farming. A corporation (other than a corporation that is a subchapter T cooperative) that engages in farming should use Form 1120 to report the income (loss) from such activities. Enter the income and deductions of the corporation according to the instructions for lines 1 through 10 and 12 through 29.

Ownership interest in a Financial Asset Securitization Investment Trust (FASIT). Special rules apply to a FASIT in existence on October 22, 2004, to the extent that regular interests issued by the FASIT before October 22, 2004, continue to remain outstanding in accordance with their original terms.

If a corporation holds an ownership interest in a FASIT to which these special rules apply, it must report all items of income, gain, deductions, losses, and credits on the corporation's income tax return (except as provided in section 860H). Show a breakdown of the items on an attached statement. For more information, see sections 860H and 860L (repealed with certain exceptions).

Foreign-owned domestic disregarded entities. If a foreign person, including a foreign corporation, wholly owns a domestic disregarded entity (DE), the domestic DE is treated as a domestic corporation separate from its owner (the foreign corporation) for the limited purposes of the requirements under
---
# Instructions for Form 1120

section 6038A that apply to 25% foreign-owned domestic corporations. While a DE is not required to file a U.S. income tax return, a DE covered by these rules is required to file a pro forma Form 1120 with Form 5472 attached by the due date (including extensions) of the return. See the Instructions for Form 5472 for additional information and coordination with Form 5472 reporting by the domestic DE.

# Qualified opportunity fund

To certify as a qualified opportunity fund (QOF), the corporation must file Form 1120 and attach Form 8996, even if the corporation had no income or expenses to report. See Schedule K, Question 25, later. Also, see the Instructions for Form 8996.

# Qualified opportunity investment

If the corporation held a qualified investment in a QOF at any time during the year, the corporation must file its return with Form 8997 attached. See the instructions for Form 8997.

# Electronic Filing

Corporations can generally electronically file (e-file) Form 1120, related forms, schedules, and attachments; Form 7004 (automatic extension of time to file); and Forms 940, 941, and 944 (employment tax returns). If there is a balance due, the corporation can authorize an electronic funds withdrawal while e-filing. Form 1099 and other information returns can also be electronically filed. The option to e-file does not, however, apply to certain returns.

For returns filed on or after January 1, 2024, corporations that file 10 or more returns are required to e-file Form 1120. See Regulations section 301.6011-5. However, these corporations can request a waiver of the electronic filing requirements.

# Special Returns for Certain Organizations

Instead of filing Form 1120, certain organizations, as shown below, file special returns.

|If the organization is a:|File Form|
|---|---|
|Exempt organization with unrelated trade or business income|990-T|
|Religious or apostolic organization exempt under section 501(d)|1065|
|Entity formed as a limited liability company under state law and treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes|1065|
|Subchapter T cooperative association (including a farmers' cooperative)|1120-C|
|Entity that elects to be treated as a real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC) under section 860D|1066|
|Interest charge domestic international sales corporation (section 992)|1120-IC-DISC|
|Foreign corporation (other than life or property and casualty insurance company filing Form 1120-L or Form 1120-PC)|1120-F|
|Foreign sales corporation (section 922)|1120-FSC|
|Condominium management, residential real estate management, or timeshare association that elects to be treated as a homeowners association under section 528|1120-H|
|Life insurance company (section 801)|1120-L|
|Fund set up to pay for nuclear decommissioning costs (section 468A)|1120-ND|
|Property and casualty insurance company (section 831)|1120-PC|
|Political organization (section 527)|1120-POL|
|Real estate investment trust (section 856)|1120-REIT|

For more information on e-filing, see E-file for Business and Self-employed Taxpayers on IRS.gov.

# Waivers

The IRS may waive the electronic filing rules if the corporation demonstrates that a hardship would result if it were required to file its return electronically. A corporation interested in requesting a waiver of the mandatory electronic filing requirement must file a written request, and request one in the manner prescribed by the IRS. All written requests for waivers should be mailed to:

Internal Revenue Service

Ogden Submission Processing Center

Attn: Form 1120 e-file Waiver Request

Mail Stop 1057

Ogden, UT 84201

If using a delivery service, requests for waivers should be mailed to:

Internal Revenue Service

Ogden Submission Processing Center

Attn: Form 1120 e-file Waiver Request

Mail Stop 1057

1973 N. Rulon White Blvd.

Ogden, UT 84404

Waiver requests can also be faxed to 877-477-0575. Contact the e-Help Desk at 866-255-0654 for questions regarding the waiver procedures or process.

# Exemptions

The IRS may provide exemptions from the requirements to electronically file. If using the technology required to electronically file conflicts with religious beliefs, the corporation is exempt from the requirement. Clearly indicate the exemption on the corporation’s return. Write "Religious Exemption" at the top of Form 1120. File the corporation's return at the applicable IRS address. See Where To File, later.

# When To File

Generally, a corporation must file its income tax return by the 15th day of the 4th month after the end of its tax year. A new corporation filing a short-period return must generally file by the 15th day of the 4th month after the short period ends.
---
# Where To File

File the corporation's return at the applicable IRS address listed below.

|If the corporation's principal business, office, or agency is located in:|And the total assets at the end of the tax year are:|Use the following address:|
|---|---|---|
|Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin|Less than $10 million and Schedule M-3 is not filed|Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service Center Kansas City, MO 64999-0012|
| |$10 million or more, or less than $10 million and Schedule M-3 is filed|Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service Center Ogden, UT 84201-0012|
|Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wyoming|Any amount|Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service Center Ogden, UT 84201-0012|
|A foreign country or U.S. territory|Any amount|Internal Revenue Service Center P.O. Box 409101 Ogden, UT 84409|

A group of corporations with members located in more than one service center area will often keep all the books and records at the principal office of the managing corporation. In this case, the tax returns of the corporations may be filed with the service center for the area in which the principal office of the managing corporation is located.

A corporation that has dissolved must generally file by the 15th day of the 4th month after the date it dissolved. However, a corporation with a fiscal tax year ending June 30 must file by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of its tax year. A corporation with a short tax year ending anytime in June will be treated as if the short year ended on June 30, and must file by the 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of its tax year. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the corporation can file on the next business day.

# Private Delivery Services

Corporations can use certain private delivery services (PDS) designated by the IRS to meet the “timely mailing as timely filing” rule for tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/PDS.

The PDS can tell you how to get written proof of the mailing date. For the IRS mailing address to use if you’re using a PDS, go to IRS.gov/PDSstreetAddresses.

Private delivery services can't deliver items to P.O. boxes. You must use the U.S. Postal Service to mail any item to an IRS P.O. box address.

The corporate officer. Returns and forms signed by a receiver or trustee in bankruptcy on behalf of a corporation must be accompanied by a copy of the order or instructions of the court authorizing signing of the return or form.

# Paid Preparer Use Only section

If an employee of the corporation completes Form 1120, the paid preparer section should remain blank. Anyone who prepares Form 1120 but does not charge the corporation should not complete that section. Generally, anyone who is paid to prepare the return must sign and complete the section.

The paid preparer must complete the required preparer information and:

- Sign the return in the space provided for the preparer's signature,
- Include their Preparer Tax Identification Number (PTIN), and
- Give a copy of the return to the taxpayer.

A paid preparer may sign original or amended returns by rubber stamp, mechanical device, or computer software program.

# Paid Preparer Authorization

# Extension of Time To File

File Form 7004, Application for Automatic Extension of Time To File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns, to request an extension of time to file. Generally, the corporation must file Form 7004 by the regular due date of the return. See the Instructions for Form 7004.

# Who Must Sign

The return must be signed and dated by:

- The president, vice president, treasurer, assistant treasurer, chief accounting officer; or
- Any other corporate officer (such as tax officer) authorized to sign.

If a return is filed on behalf of a corporation by a receiver, trustee, or assignee, the fiduciary must sign the return, instead of the corporate officer.

If the corporation wants to allow the IRS to discuss its 2023 tax return with the paid preparer who signed it, check the “Yes” box in the signature area of the return. This authorization applies only to the individual whose signature appears in the “Paid Preparer Use Only” section of the return. It does not apply to the firm, if any, shown in that section.

If the “Yes” box is checked, the corporation is authorizing the IRS to call the paid preparer to answer any questions that may arise during the processing of its return. The corporation is also authorizing the paid preparer to:

- Give the IRS any information that is missing from the return;
- Call the IRS for information about the processing of the return or the status of any related refund or payment(s); and
- Respond to certain IRS notices about math errors, offsets, and return preparation.
---
The corporation is not authorizing the paid preparer to receive any refund check, bind the corporation to anything (including any additional tax liability), or otherwise represent the corporation before the IRS.

The authorization will automatically end no later than the due date (excluding extensions) for filing the corporation's 2024 tax return. If the corporation wants to expand the paid preparer's authorization or revoke the authorization before it ends, see Pub. 947, Practice Before the IRS and Power of Attorney.

# Assembling the Return

To ensure that the corporation's tax return is correctly processed, attach all schedules and other forms after page 6 of Form 1120 in the following order.

1. Schedule N (Form 1120).
2. Schedule D (Form 1120).
3. Form 4797.
4. Form 8949.
5. Form 8996.
6. Form 4626.
7. Form 8050.
8. Form 1125-A.
9. Form 4136.
10. Form 8978.
11. Form 965-B.
12. Form 8941.
13. Form 3800.
14. Form 8997.
15. Form 6252.
16. Form 8936, Schedule A.
17. Additional schedules in alphabetical order.
18. Additional forms in numerical order.
19. Supporting statements and attachments.

Complete every applicable entry space on Form 1120. Do not enter “See Attached” or “Available Upon Request” instead of completing the entry spaces. If more space is needed on the forms or schedules, attach separate sheets using the same size and format as the printed forms.

If there are supporting statements and attachments, arrange them in the same order as the schedules or forms they support and attach them last. Show the totals on the printed forms. Enter the corporation's name and EIN on each supporting statement or attachment.

Note. If the corporation had tax withheld under Chapter 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code and received a Form 1042-S, Form 8805, or Form 8288-A showing the amount of income tax withheld, attach such form(s) to the corporation’s income tax return to claim a withholding credit. The corporation should report the tax withheld on Schedule J, Part II, line 20z. See the instructions for Schedule J, Part II, Line 20z.

# Tax Payments

Generally, the corporation must pay any tax due in full no later than the due date for filing its tax return (not including extensions). See the instructions for line 35. If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the payment is due on the next day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

# Electronic Deposit Requirement

Corporations must use electronic funds transfer to make all federal tax deposits (such as deposits of employment, excise, and corporate income tax). Generally, electronic funds transfers are made using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS). However, if the corporation does not want to use EFTPS, it can arrange for its tax professional, financial institution, payroll service, or other trusted third party to make deposits on its behalf. Also, it may arrange for its financial institution to submit a same-day payment (discussed below) on its behalf. EFTPS is a free service provided by the Department of the Treasury. Services provided by a tax professional, financial institution, payroll service, or other third party may have a fee.

To get more information about EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov or call 800-555-4477. To contact EFTPS using the Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS), for people who are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, dial 711 and provide the TRS assistant the 800-555-4477 number above or 800-733-4829.

# Depositing on time.

For any deposit made by EFTPS to be on time, the corporation must submit the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the date the deposit is due. If the corporation uses a third party to make deposits on its behalf, they may have different cutoff times.

# Same-day wire payment option.

If the corporation fails to submit a deposit transaction on EFTPS by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the date a deposit is due, it can still make its deposit on time by using the Federal Tax Collection Service (FTCS). To use the same-day wire payment method, the corporation will need to make arrangements with its financial institution ahead of time regarding availability, deadlines, and costs. Financial institutions may charge a fee for payments made this way. To learn more about the information the corporation will need to provide to its financial institution to make a same-day wire payment, go to IRS.gov/SameDayWire.

# Estimated Tax Payments

Generally, the following rules apply to the corporation's payments of estimated tax.

- The corporation must make installment payments of estimated tax if it expects its total tax for the year (less applicable credits) to be $500 or more.
- The installments are due by the 15th day of the 4th, 6th, 9th, and 12th months of the tax year. If any date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the installment is due on the next regular business day.
- The corporation must use electronic funds transfer to make installment payments of estimated tax.
- If, after the corporation figures and deposits estimated tax, it finds that its tax liability for the year will be more or less than originally estimated, it may have to refigure its required installments. If earlier installments were underpaid, the corporation may owe a penalty. See Estimated tax penalty below.
- If the corporation overpaid estimated tax, it may be able to get a quick refund by filing Form 4466, Corporation Application for Quick Refund of Overpayment of Estimated Tax. See the instructions for Schedule J, Part II, line 15.

See section 6655 and Pub. 542, Corporations, for more information on how to figure estimated taxes.

# Estimated tax penalty.

A corporation that does not make estimated tax payments when due may be subject to an underpayment penalty for the period of underpayment. Generally, a corporation is subject to the penalty if its tax liability is $500 or more and it did not timely pay at least the smaller of:

- Its tax liability for the current year, or
- Its prior year's tax.

Instructions for Form 1120
---
# Interest and Penalties

Use Form 2220, Underpayment of Estimated Tax by Corporations, to see if the corporation owes a penalty and to figure the amount of the penalty. If Form 2220 is completed, enter the penalty on line 34. See the instructions for line 34. Also see Relief from additions to tax for underpayments applicable to the new corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT), earlier.

# Interest

Interest is charged on taxes paid late even if an extension of time to file is granted. Interest is also charged on penalties imposed for failure to file, negligence, fraud, substantial valuation misstatements, substantial understatements of tax, and reportable transaction understatements from the due date (including extensions) to the date of payment. The interest charge is figured at a rate determined under section 6621.

# Late filing of return

A corporation that does not file its tax return by the due date, including extensions, may be penalized 5% of the unpaid tax for each month or part of a month the return is late, up to a maximum of 25% of the unpaid tax. The minimum penalty for a tax return required to be filed in 2024 that is more than 60 days late is the smaller of the tax due or $485. The penalty will not be imposed if the corporation can show that the failure to file on time was due to reasonable cause.

# Late payment of tax

A corporation that does not pay the tax when due may generally be penalized 1/2 of 1% of the unpaid tax for each month or part of a month the tax is not paid, up to a maximum of 25% of the unpaid tax.

# Trust fund recovery penalty

This penalty may apply if certain excise, income, social security, and Medicare taxes that must be collected or withheld are not collected or withheld, or these taxes are not paid. These taxes are generally reported on:

- Form 720, Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return;
- Form 941, Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return;
- Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax Return for Agricultural Employees;
- Form 944, Employer's ANNUAL Federal Tax Return; or
- Form 945, Annual Return of Withheld Federal Income Tax.

The trust fund recovery penalty may be imposed on all persons who are determined by the IRS to have been responsible for collecting, accounting for, or paying over these taxes, and who acted willfully in not doing so. The penalty is equal to the full amount of the unpaid trust fund tax. See the Instructions for Form 720, Pub. 15 (Circular E), Employer's Tax Guide, or Pub. 51 (Circular A), Agricultural Employer's Tax Guide, for details, including the definition of responsible persons.

Note. The trust fund recovery penalty will not apply to any amount of trust fund taxes an employer holds back in anticipation of the credit for qualified sick and family leave wages or the employee retention credit that they are entitled to. See Pub. 15 or Pub. 51 for more information.

# Other penalties

Other penalties can be imposed for negligence, substantial understatement of tax, reportable transaction understatements, and fraud. See sections 6662, 6662A, and 6663.

# Accounting Methods

Figure taxable income using the method of accounting regularly used in keeping the corporation's books and records. In all cases, the method used must clearly show taxable income. Permissible methods include cash, accrual, or any other method authorized by the Internal Revenue Code.

Generally, the following rules apply. For more information, see Pub. 538, Accounting Periods and Methods.

- A corporation, or a partnership that has a corporation as a partner, cannot use the cash method of accounting unless it is a small business taxpayer (defined later). A tax shelter (defined in section 448(d)(3)) may never use the cash method. See sections 448(a)(1) through (a)(3). However, see Nonaccrual experience method for service providers in the instructions for line 1a.
- Unless it is a small business taxpayer (defined below), a corporation must use an accrual method for sales and purchases of inventory items. See the instructions for Form 1125-A.
- A corporation engaged in farming must use an accrual method. For exceptions, see section 447 and Pub. 225.
- Special rules apply to long-term contracts. See section 460.
- Dealers in securities must use the mark-to-market accounting method. Dealers in commodities and traders in securities and commodities can elect to use the mark-to-market accounting method. See section 475.

# Small business taxpayer

For tax years beginning in 2023, a corporation qualifies as a small business taxpayer if (a) it has average annual gross receipts of $29 million or less for the 3 prior tax years, and (b) it is not a tax shelter (as defined in section 448(d)(3)).

A small business taxpayer can account for inventory by (a) treating the inventory as non-incidental materials and supplies, or (b) conforming to its treatment of inventory in an applicable financial statement (as defined in section 451(b)(3)). If it does not have an applicable financial statement, it can use the method of accounting used in its books and records prepared according to its accounting procedures.

# Change in accounting method

Generally, the corporation must get IRS consent to change either an overall method of accounting or the accounting treatment of any material item for income tax purposes. To obtain consent, the corporation must generally file Form 3115, Application for Change in Accounting Method, during the tax year for which the change is requested.

See the Instructions for Form 3115 and Pub. 538 for more information and exceptions. Also see the Instructions for Form 3115 for procedures that may apply for obtaining automatic consent to change certain methods of accounting, non-automatic change procedures, and reduced Form 3115 filing requirements.

# Section 481(a) adjustment

If the corporation's taxable income for the current tax year is figured under a method of accounting different from the method used in the preceding tax year, the corporation may have to make an adjustment under section 481(a) to prevent amounts of income or expense from being duplicated or omitted. The section 481(a) adjustment period is generally 1 year for a net negative adjustment and 4 years for a net positive adjustment. For an eligible terminated S corporation, the section 481(a) adjustment period is generally 6 years for a negative or positive adjustment that is attributable to the S corporation's revocation of its election under section 1362(a) after December 21, 2017, and before December 22, 2019. See section 481(d). Also, see the Instructions for Form 3115.

Exceptions to the general section 481(a) adjustment period may apply. Also, in some cases, a corporation can elect to modify the section 481(a) adjustment period. The corporation may have to complete the appropriate lines of Form 3115 to make an election. See the Instructions for Form 3115 for more information and exceptions.
---
If the net section 481(a) adjustment is positive, report the ratable portion on Form 1120, line 10, as other income. If the net section 481(a) adjustment is negative, report the ratable portion on line 26 as a deduction.

# Accounting Period

A corporation must figure its taxable income on the basis of a tax year. A tax year is the annual accounting period a corporation uses to keep its records and report its income and expenses. Generally, corporations can use a calendar year or a fiscal year. Personal service corporations, however, must use a calendar year unless they meet one of the exceptions discussed later under Personal Service Corporation.

Change of tax year. Generally, a corporation, including a personal service corporation, must get the consent of the IRS before changing its tax year by filing Form 1128, Application To Adopt, Change, or Retain a Tax Year. However, exceptions may apply. See the Instructions for Form 1128 and Pub. 538 for more information.

# Rounding Off to Whole Dollars

The corporation may enter decimal points and cents when completing its return. However, the corporation should round off cents to whole dollars on its return, forms, and schedules to make completing its return easier. The corporation must either round off all amounts on its return to whole dollars, or use cents for all amounts. To round, drop amounts under 50 cents and increase amounts from 50 to 99 cents to the next dollar. For example, $8.40 rounds to $8 and $8.50 rounds to $9.

If two or more amounts must be added to figure the amount to enter on a line, include cents when adding the amounts and round off only the total.

# Recordkeeping

Keep the corporation's records for as long as they may be needed for the administration of any provision of the Internal Revenue Code. Usually, records that support an item of income, deduction, or credit on the return must be kept for 3 years from the date the return is due or filed, whichever is later. Keep records that verify the corporation's basis in property for as long as they are needed to figure the basis of the original or replacement property.

The corporation should keep copies of all filed returns. They help in preparing future and amended returns and in the calculation of earnings and profits.

# Other Forms and Statements That May Be Required

Amended return. Use Form 1120-X, Amended U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return, to correct a previously filed Form 1120.

Reportable transaction disclosure statement. Disclose information for each reportable transaction in which the corporation participated. Form 8886, Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement, must be filed for each tax year that the federal income tax liability of the corporation is affected by its participation in the transaction. The following are reportable transactions.

1. Any listed transaction, which is a transaction that is the same as or substantially similar to one of the types of transactions that the IRS has determined to be a tax avoidance transaction and identified by notice, regulation, or other published guidance as a listed transaction.
2. Any transaction offered under conditions of confidentiality for which the corporation (or a related party) paid an advisor a fee of at least $250,000.
3. Certain transactions for which the corporation (or a related party) has contractual protection against disallowance of the tax benefits.
4. Certain transactions resulting in a loss of at least $10 million in any single year or $20 million in any combination of years.
5. Any transaction identified by the IRS by notice, regulation, or other published guidance as a “transaction of interest.”

For more information, see Regulations section 1.6011-4. Also, see the Instructions for Form 8886.

Penalties. The corporation may have to pay a penalty if it is required to disclose a reportable transaction under section 6011 and fails to properly complete and file Form 8886. Penalties may also apply under section 6707A if the corporation fails to file Form 8886 with its corporate return, fails to provide a copy of Form 8886 to the Office of Tax Shelter Analysis (OTSA), or files a form that fails to include all the information required (or includes incorrect information). Other penalties, such as an accuracy-related penalty under section 6662A, may also apply. See the Instructions for Form 8886 for details on these and other penalties.

Reportable transactions by material advisors. Material advisors to any reportable transaction must disclose certain information about the reportable transaction by filing Form 8918 with the IRS. For details, see the Instructions for Form 8918.

Transfers to a corporation controlled by the transferor. Every significant transferor (as defined in Regulations section 1.351-3(d)(1)) that receives stock of a corporation in exchange for property in a nonrecognition event must include the statement required by Regulations section 1.351-3(a) on or with the transferor's tax return for the tax year of the exchange. The transferee corporation must include the statement required by Regulations section 1.351-3(b) on or with its return for the tax year of the exchange, unless all the required information is included in any statement(s) provided by a significant transferor that is attached to the same return for the same section 351 exchange. If the transferor or transferee corporation is a controlled foreign corporation (CFC), each U.S. shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b)) must include the required statement on or with its return.

Distributions under section 355. Every corporation that makes a distribution of stock or securities of a controlled corporation, as described in section 355 (or so much of section 356 as it relates to section 355), must include the statement required by Regulations section 1.355-5(a) on or with its return for the year of the distribution. A significant distributee (as defined in Regulations section 1.355-5(c)) that receives stock or securities of a controlled corporation must include the statement required by Regulations section 1.355-5(b) on or with its return for the year of receipt. If the distributing or distributee corporation is a CFC, each U.S. shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b)) must include the statement on or with its return.

Dual consolidated losses. If a domestic corporation incurs a dual consolidated loss (as defined in Regulations section 1.1503(d)-1(b)(5)), the corporation (or consolidated group) may need to attach a domestic use agreement and/or an annual certification, as provided in Regulations section 1.1503(d)-6(d) and (g).

Election to reduce basis under section 362(e)(2)(C). If property is transferred to a corporation subject to section 362(e)(2), the transferor and the transferee corporation may elect, under section 362(e)(2)(C), to reduce the transferor's basis in the stock received instead of reducing the transferee.
---
corporation's basis in the property transferred. Once made, the election is irrevocable. For more information, see section 362(e) (2) and Regulations section 1.362-4. If an election is made, a statement must be filed in accordance with Regulations section 1.362-4(d)(3).

# Specific Instructions

# Period Covered

File the 2023 return for calendar year 2023 and fiscal years that begin in 2023 and end in 2024. For a fiscal or short tax year return, fill in the tax year space at the top of the form. The 2023 Form 1120 can also be used if:

- The corporation has a tax year of less than 12 months that begins and ends in 2024, and
- The 2024 Form 1120 is not available at the time the corporation is required to file its return.

The corporation must show its 2024 tax year on the 2023 Form 1120 and take into account any tax law changes that are effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2023.

# Name and Address

Enter the corporation's true name (as set forth in the charter or other legal document creating it), address, and EIN on the appropriate lines. Enter the address of the corporation's principal office or place of business. Include the suite, room, or other unit number after the street address. If the post office does not deliver mail to the street address and the corporation has a P.O. box, show the box number instead.

Note. Do not use the address of the registered agent for the state in which the corporation is incorporated. For example, if a business is incorporated in Delaware or Nevada and the corporation's principal office is located in Little Rock, Arkansas, the corporation should enter the Little Rock address.

If the corporation receives its mail in care of a third party (such as an accountant or an attorney), enter on the street address line “C/O” followed by the third party's name and street address or P.O. box.

If the corporation has a foreign address, include the city or town, state or province, country, and foreign postal code. Do not abbreviate the country name. Follow the country's practice for entering the name of the state or province and postal code.

# Item A. Identifying Information

# Consolidated Return

Corporations filing a consolidated return must check Item A, box 1a, and attach Form 851, Affiliations Schedule, and other supporting statements to the return. Also, for the first year a subsidiary corporation is being included in a consolidated return, attach Form 1122 to the parent's consolidated return. Attach a separate Form 1122 for each new subsidiary being included in the consolidated return.

File supporting statements for each corporation included in the consolidated return. Do not use Form 1120 as a supporting statement. On the supporting statement, use columns to show the following, both before and after adjustments:

1. Items of gross income and deductions.
2. A computation of taxable income.
3. Balance sheets, as of the beginning and end of the tax year.
4. A reconciliation of income per books with income per return.
5. A reconciliation of retained earnings.

Other forms and statements. See Pub. 542, Corporations, for a list of other forms and statements a corporation may need to enter on Form 1120 the totals for each item of income, gain, loss, expense, or deduction, net of eliminating entries for.
---
Intercompany transactions between corporations within the consolidated group. Attach consolidated balance sheets and a reconciliation of consolidated retained earnings.

The corporation does not have to provide the information requested in (3), (4), and (5), above, if its total receipts (line 1a plus lines 4 through 10 on page 1 of the return) and its total assets at the end of the tax year (Schedule L, line 15(d)) are less than $250,000. See Schedule K, Question 13.

For more information on consolidated returns, see the regulations under section 1502.

# Life-Nonlife Consolidated Return

The tax year, or (b) are not required to file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) and voluntarily file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120), must either (i) complete Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) entirely, or (ii) complete Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) through Part I, and complete Form 1120, Schedule M-1, instead of completing Parts II and III of Schedule M-3 (Form 1120). If the corporation chooses to complete Schedule M-1 instead of completing Parts II and III of Schedule M-3, the amount on Schedule M-1, line 1, must equal the amount on Schedule M-3, Part I, line 11. See the Instructions for Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) for more details. Also, see the instructions for Schedule M-1, later.

If you are filing Schedule M-3, check Item A, box 4, to indicate that Schedule M-3 is attached.

# Item B. Employer Identification Number (EIN)

Enter the corporation's EIN. If the corporation does not have an EIN, it must apply for one. An EIN can be applied for:

- Online—Go to IRS.gov/EIN. The EIN is issued immediately once the application information is validated.
- By faxing or mailing Form SS-4, Application for Employer Identification Number.

Corporations located in the United States or U.S. territories can use the online application. Foreign corporations should call 267-941-1099 (not a toll free number) for more information on obtaining an EIN. See the Instructions for Form SS-4.

EIN applied for, but not received. If the corporation has not received its EIN by the time the return is due, enter “Applied For” and the date the corporation applied in the space for the EIN. However, if the corporation is filing its return electronically, an EIN is required at the time the return is filed. An exception applies to subsidiaries of corporations whose returns are filed with the parent's electronically filed consolidated Form 1120. These subsidiaries should enter “Applied For” in the space for the EIN on their returns. The subsidiaries' returns are identified under the parent corporation's EIN.

# Personal Holding Company

A personal holding company must check Item A, box 2, and attach Schedule PH (Form 1120), U.S. Personal Holding Company (PHC) Tax. See the Instructions for Schedule PH (Form 1120) for details.

# Personal Service Corporation

If the corporation is a personal service corporation, check Item A, box 3. A personal service corporation is a corporation whose principal activity for the testing period is the performance of personal services. The testing period for a tax year is generally the prior tax year unless the corporation has just been formed. Personal services include any activity performed in the fields of accounting, actuarial science, architecture, consulting, engineering, health, law, and the performing arts. The services must be substantially performed by employee-owners.

A personal service corporation must use a calendar tax year unless:

- It elects to use a 52-53-week tax year that ends with reference to the calendar year or tax year elected under section 444;
- It can establish a business purpose for a different tax year and obtains the approval of the IRS (see the Instructions for Form 1128 and Pub. 538); or
- It elects under section 444 to have a tax year other than a calendar year. To make the election, use Form 8716, Election To Have a Tax Year Other Than a Required Tax Year.

If a corporation makes the section 444 election, its deduction for certain amounts paid to employee-owners may be limited. See Schedule H (Form 1120), Section 280H Limitations for a Personal Service Corporation (PSC), to figure the maximum deduction.

If a section 444 election is terminated and the termination results in a short tax year, type or print at the top of the first page of Form 1120 for the short tax year “SECTION 444 ELECTION TERMINATED.”

# Schedule M-3 (Form 1120)

A corporation with total assets (nonconsolidated or consolidated for all corporations included within a consolidated tax group) of $10 million or more on the last day of the tax year must file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) instead of Schedule M-1. A corporation filing Form 1120 that is not required to file Schedule M-3 may voluntarily file Schedule M-3 instead of Schedule M-1.

Corporations that (a) are required to file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) and have less than $50 million total assets at the end of the return may file Schedule M-3 instead of Schedule M-1.

# Item D. Total Assets

Enter the corporation's total assets (as determined by the accounting method regularly used in keeping the corporation's books and records) at the end of the tax year. If there are no assets at the end of the tax year, enter -0-.

If the corporation is required to complete Schedule L, enter the total assets from Schedule L, line 15, column (d), on page 1. If filing a consolidated return, report total consolidated assets for all corporations joining in the return.

# Item E. Initial Return, Final Return, Name Change, or Address Change

If this is the corporation's first return, check the “Initial return” box.

If this is the corporation's final return and it will no longer exist, check the “Final return” box.

If the corporation changed its name since it last filed a return, check the “Name change” box. Generally, a corporation must also have amended its articles of incorporation and filed the amendment with the state in which it was incorporated.

If the corporation has changed its address since it last filed a return (including a change to an “in care of” address), check the “Address change” box.

Note. If a change in address or responsible party occurs after the return is filed, use Form 8822-B, Change of Address or
---
# Responsible Party— Business, to notify the IRS.

See the instructions for Form 8822-B for details.

# Income

Except as otherwise provided in the Internal Revenue Code, gross income includes all income from whatever source derived.

- Exception for income from qualifying shipping activities.

Gross income does not include income from qualifying shipping activities if the corporation makes an election under section 1354 to be taxed on its notional shipping income (as defined in section 1353) at the highest corporate tax rate. If the election is made, the corporation generally may not claim any loss, deduction, or credit with respect to qualifying shipping activities. A corporation making this election may also elect to defer gain on the disposition of a qualifying vessel.

Use Form 8902, Alternative Tax on Qualifying Shipping Activities, to figure the tax. Include the alternative tax on Schedule J, Part I, line 9e.

# Line 1. Gross Receipts or Sales

Line 1a. Gross receipts or sales. Enter on line 1a gross receipts or sales from all business operations, except for amounts that must be reported on lines 4 through 10.

Special rules apply to certain income, as discussed below.

- Advance payments. In general, advance payments must be included in income in the year of receipt. For exceptions to this general rule for corporations that use the accrual method of accounting, see the following.

• To report income from long-term contracts, see section 460.

• For rules that allow a limited deferral of advance payments beyond the current tax year, see section 451(c). Also, see Regulations sections 1.451-8(c), (d), and (e). For applicability dates, see Regulations section 1.451-8(h).

• For information on adopting or changing to a permissible method for reporting advance payments for services and certain goods by an accrual method corporation, see the Instructions for Form 3115.

# Line 2. Cost of Goods Sold

Complete and attach Form 1125-A, Cost of Goods Sold, if applicable. Enter on Form 1120, line 2, the amount from Form 1125-A, line 8. See Form 1125-A and its instructions.

# Line 4. Dividends and Inclusions

See the instructions for Schedule C, later. Complete Schedule C and enter on line 4 the amount from Schedule C, line 23, column (a).

# Line 5. Interest

Enter taxable interest on U.S. obligations and on loans, notes, mortgages, bonds, bank deposits, corporate bonds, tax refunds, etc. Do not offset interest expense against interest income. Special rules apply to interest income from certain below-market-rate loans. See section 7872 for details.

Note. Report tax-exempt interest on Schedule K, item 9. Also, if required, include the same amount on Schedule M-1, line 7, or Schedule M-3 (Form 1120), Part II, line 13, if applicable.

# Line 6. Gross Rents

Enter the gross amount received for the rental of property. Deduct expenses such as repairs, interest, taxes, and depreciation on the proper lines for deductions. A rental activity held by a closely held corporation or a personal service corporation may be subject to the passive activity loss rules. See Passive activity limitations, later.

# Line 10. Other Income

Enter any other taxable income not reported on lines 1 through 9. List the type and amount of income on an attached statement. If the corporation has only one item of other income, describe it in parentheses on line 10.

Examples of other income to report on line 10 include the following:

- Recoveries of bad debts deducted in prior years under the specific charge-off method.
- Any amount includible in income from Form 6478, Biofuel Producer Credit.
---
• Any amount includible in income from Form 8864, Biodiesel, Renewable Diesel, or Sustainable Aviation Fuels Credit.

• Refunds of taxes deducted in prior years to the extent they reduced the amount of tax imposed. See section 111 and the related regulations. Do not offset current-year taxes against tax refunds.

• Ordinary income from trade or business activities of a qualified leave wages were paid, which might, under certain circumstances, not occur until a quarter after September 30, 2021, including quarters in 2023.

# Deductions

Limitations on Deductionspartnership (from Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)). Do not offset ordinary losses against ordinary income. Instead, include the losses on line 26. Show the partnership's name, address, and EIN on a separate statement attached to this return. If the amount entered is from more than one partnership, identify the amount from each partnership.• The transferred loss amount identified as “Section 91 Transferred Loss Amount,” which is required to be recognized when substantially all the assets of a foreign branch are transferred to a specified 10% owned foreign corporation (as defined in section 245A(b)) with respect to which the corporation was a U.S. shareholder immediately after the transfer. See section 91.• Any LIFO recapture amount under section 1363(d). The corporation may have to include a LIFO recapture amount in income if it:1. Used the LIFO inventory method for its last tax year before the first tax year for which it elected to become an S corporation, or2. Transferred LIFO inventory assets to an S corporation in a nonrecognition transaction in which those assets were transferred basis property.The LIFO recapture amount is the amount by which the C corporation's inventory under the FIFO method exceeds the inventory amount under the LIFO method at the close of the corporation's last tax year as a C corporation (or for the year of the transfer, if (2) above applies). Also, see the instructions for Schedule J, Part I, line 11.• The ratable portion of any net positive section 481(a) adjustment. See Section 481(a) adjustment, earlier.• Part or all of the proceeds received from certain corporate-owned life insurance contracts issued after August 17, 2006. Corporations that own one or more employer-owned life insurance contracts issued after this date must file Form 8925, Report of Employer-Owned Life Insurance Contracts. See Form 8925.• Income from cancellation of debt (COD) from the repurchase of a debt instrument for less than its adjusted issue price.• The corporation's share of the following income from Form 8621, Information Return by a Shareholder of a Passive Foreign Investment Company or Qualified Electing Fund.1. Ordinary earnings of a qualified electing fund.2. Gain or loss from marking passive foreign investment company (PFIC) stock to market.3. Gain or loss from sale or other disposition of section 1296 stock.4. Excess distributions from a section 1291 fund allocated to the current year and pre-PFIC years, if any.See Form 8621 and the Instructions for Form 8621 for details.• Any payroll tax credit taken by an employer on its 2023 employment tax returns (Forms 941, 943, and 944) for qualified paid sick and qualified paid family leave under FFCRA and ARP (both the nonrefundable and refundable portions). The corporation must include the full amount of the credit for qualified sick and family leave wages in gross income for the tax year that includes the last day of any calendar quarter in which the credit is allowed.Note. A credit is available only if the leave was taken after March 31, 2020, and before October 1, 2021, and only after the corporation timely filed its return for the year without making an election, it can still make an election by filing an amended return within 6 months of the due date of the return (excluding extensions). Clearly indicate the election on the amended return and enter “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” at the top of the amended return. File the amended.
---
return at the same address the corporation filed its original return. The election applies when figuring taxable income for the current tax year and all subsequent years.

The corporation can choose to forgo the elections above by affirmatively electing to capitalize its start-up or organizational costs on its income tax return filed by the due date (including extensions) for the tax year in which the active trade or business begins.

Note. The election to either amortize or capitalize start-up costs is irrevocable and applies to all start-up costs that are related to the trade or business.

Report the deductible amount of start-up and organizational costs and any amortization on line 26. For amortization that begins during the current tax year, complete and attach Form 4562, Depreciation and Amortization.

# Passive activity limitations.

Limitations on passive activity losses and credits under section 469 apply to personal service corporations (defined earlier) and closely held corporations (defined later).

Generally, the two kinds of passive activities are:

- Trade or business activities in which the corporation did not materially participate for the tax year; and
- Rental activities, regardless of its participation.

For exceptions, see Form 8810, Corporate Passive Activity Loss and Credit Limitations.

Corporations subject to the passive activity limitations must complete Form 8810 to compute their allowable passive activity loss and credit. Before completing Form 8810, see Temporary Regulations section 1.163-8T, which provides rules for allocating interest expense among activities. If a passive activity is also subject to the at-risk rules of section 465 or the tax-exempt use loss rules of section 470, those rules apply before the passive loss rules.

For more information, see section 469, the related regulations, and Pub. 925, Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules.

# Closely held corporations.

A corporation is a closely held corporation if:

- At any time during the last half of the tax year more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is directly or indirectly owned by or for not more than five individuals, and
- The corporation is not a personal service corporation.

If the corporation has any of the credits listed above, figure the current-year credit before figuring the deduction for expenses on which the credit is based. If the corporation capitalized any costs on which it figured the credit, it may need to reduce the amount capitalized by the credit attributable to these costs.

See the instructions for the form used to figure the applicable credit for more details.

# Limitations on deductions related to property leased to tax-exempt entities.

If a corporation leases property to a governmental or other tax-exempt entity, the corporation cannot claim deductions related to the property to the extent that they exceed the corporation's income from the lease payments. This disallowed tax-exempt use loss can be carried over to the next tax year and treated as a deduction with respect to the property for that tax year. See section 470(d) for exceptions.

# Limitation on tax benefits for remuneration under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.

The $1 million compensation limit is reduced to $500,000 for remuneration for services provided by individuals for or on behalf of certain health insurance providers. The $500,000 limitation applies to remuneration that is deductible in the tax year during which the services were performed and remuneration for services during the year that is deductible in a future tax year (called "deferred deduction remuneration"). The $500,000 limitation is reduced by any amounts disallowed as excess parachute payments. See section 162(m)(6) and Regulations section 1.162-31 for definitions and other special rules.

# Line 12. Compensation of Officers

Enter deductible officers' compensation on line 12. Do not include compensation deductible elsewhere on the return, such as amounts included in cost of goods sold, elective contributions to a section 401(k) cash or deferred arrangement, or amounts contributed under a salary reduction SEP agreement or a SIMPLE IRA plan.

If the corporation's total receipts (line 1a, plus lines 4 through 10) are $500,000 or more, complete Form 1125-E, Compensation of Officers. Enter on Form 1120, line 12, the amount from Form 1125-E, line 4.

# Line 13. Salaries and Wages

Certain organizations are treated as individuals for purposes of this test. See section 542(a)(2). For rules for determining stock ownership, see section 544 (as modified by section 465(a)(3)).

Reducing certain expenses for which credits are allowable. If the corporation claims certain credits, it may need to reduce the otherwise allowable deductions for expenses used to figure the credit. This applies to credits such as the following.

- Work opportunity credit (Form 5884).
- Credit for increasing research activities (Form 6765).
- Orphan drug credit (Form 8820).
- Disabled access credit (Form 8826).
- Empowerment zone employment credit (Form 8844).
- Credit for employer social security and Medicare taxes paid on certain employee tips (Form 8846).
- Credit for small employer pension plan start-up costs (Form 8881).
- Credit for employer-provided childcare facilities and services.

Enter the total salaries and wages paid for the tax year. Do not include salaries and wages deductible elsewhere on the return, such as amounts included in officers' compensation, cost of goods sold, elective contributions to a section 401(k) cash or deferred arrangement, or amounts contributed under a salary reduction SEP agreement or a SIMPLE IRA plan.

If the corporation provided taxable fringe benefits to its employees, such as personal use of a car, do not deduct as wages the amount allocated for depreciation and other expenses claimed on lines 20 and 26.

# Line 14. Repairs and Maintenance

Enter the cost of repairs and maintenance not claimed elsewhere on the return, such as labor and supplies, that are not payments to produce or improve real or tangible personal property. See Regulations section 1.263(a)-1. For example, amounts are paid for improvements if they are for betterments to the property, restorations of the property (such as the replacements of major components or substantial structural parts), or if they adapt the property to a new or different use.
---
Amounts paid to produce or improve property must be capitalized. See Regulations sections 1.263(a)-2 and (a)-3.

The corporation can deduct repair and maintenance expenses only to the extent they relate to a trade or business activity. See Regulations section 1.162-4. The corporation may elect to capitalize certain repair and maintenance costs consistent with its books and records. See Regulations section 1.263(a)-3(n) for information on how to make the election.

# Line 15. Bad Debts

property (these taxes must be treated as a part of the cost of the acquired property or, in the case of a disposition, as a reduction in the amount realized on the disposition).

- Taxes assessed against local benefits that increase the value of the property assessed (such as for paving, etc.).
- Taxes deducted elsewhere on the return, such as those reflected in cost of goods sold.

See section 164(d) for information on apportionment of taxes on real property between seller and purchaser.

Enter the total debts that became worthless in whole or in part during the tax year. A small bank or thrift institution using the reserve method of section 585 should attach a statement showing how it figured the current year's provision. A corporation that uses the cash method of accounting cannot claim a bad debt deduction unless the amount was previously included in income.

# Line 16. Rents

Note. Do not offset interest income against interest expense. The corporation must make an interest allocation if the proceeds of a loan were used for more than one purpose (for example, to purchase a portfolio investment and to acquire an interest in a passive activity). See Temporary Regulations section 1.163-8T for the interest allocation rules.

Mutual savings banks, building and loan associations, and cooperative banks can deduct the amounts paid or credited to the accounts of depositors as dividends, interest, or earnings. See section 591.

Do not deduct the following interest.

- Interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations if the interest is wholly exempt from income tax. See section 265(b) for special rules and exceptions for financial institutions. Also, see section 265(b)(7) for a de minimis exception for financial institutions for certain tax-exempt bonds issued in 2009 and 2010.
- For cash basis taxpayers, prepaid interest allocable to years following the current tax year. For example, a cash basis calendar year taxpayer who in 2023 prepaid interest allocable to any period after 2023 can deduct only the amount allocable to 2023.
- Interest and carrying charges on straddles. Generally, these amounts must be capitalized. See section 263(g).
- Interest on debt allocable to the production of designated property by a corporation for its own use or for sale. The corporation must capitalize this interest. Also, capitalize any interest on debt allocable to an asset used to produce the property. See section 263A(f) and Regulations sections 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 for definitions and more information.
- Interest paid or incurred on any portion of an underpayment of tax that is attributable to an understatement arising from an undisclosed listed transaction or an undisclosed reportable avoidance transaction (other than a listed transaction) entered into in tax years beginning after October 22, 2004.

See Pub. 463, Travel, Gift, and Car Expenses, for instructions on figuring the inclusion amount.

Note. The inclusion amount for lease terms beginning in 2024 will be published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin in early 2024.

# Line 17. Taxes and Licenses

Enter taxes paid or accrued during the tax year, but do not include the following.

- Federal income taxes.
- Foreign or U.S. territory income taxes if a foreign tax credit is claimed.
- Taxes not imposed on the corporation.
- Taxes, including state or local sales taxes, that are paid or incurred in connection with an acquisition or disposition of.

Instructions for Form 1120
---
# Limitation on deduction

Under section 163(j), business interest expense is generally limited to the sum of business interest income, 30% of the adjusted taxable income, and floor plan financing interest. The amount of any business interest expense that is not allowed as a deduction for the tax year is carried forward to the following year. If section 163(j) applies, use Form 8990 to figure the amount of business interest expense the corporation can deduct for the current tax year and the amount that can be carried forward to the next year. See the Instructions for Form 8990. Also see Schedule K, Question 23 and Question 24, later.

# Line 19. Charitable Contributions

Enter contributions or gifts actually paid within the tax year to or for the use of charitable and governmental organizations described in section 170(c) and any unused contributions carried over from prior years. Special rules and limits apply to contributions to organizations conducting lobbying activities. See section 170(f)(9).

Corporations reporting taxable income on the accrual method can elect to treat as paid during the tax year any contributions paid by the due date for filing the corporation’s tax return (not including extensions), if the contributions were authorized by the board of directors during the tax year. Attach a declaration to the return stating that the resolution authorizing the contributions was adopted by the board of directors during the tax year. The declaration must include the date the resolution was adopted. See section 170(a)(2)(B).

Contributions of property other than cash. If a corporation (other than a closely held or personal service corporation) contributes property other than cash and claims over a $500 deduction for the property, it must attach a statement to the return describing the kind of property contributed and the method used to determine its FMV. Closely held corporations and personal service corporations must complete Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, and attach it to their returns. All other corporations must generally complete and attach Form 8283 to their returns for contributions of property (other than money) if the total claimed deduction for all property contributed was more than $5,000. Special rules apply to the contribution of certain property. See the Instructions for Form 8283.

Qualified conservation contributions. Special rules apply to qualified conservation contributions, including contributions of certain easements on buildings located in a registered historic district. See section 170(h) and Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions.

# Other special rules

The corporation must reduce its deduction for contributions of certain ordinary income and capital gain property. See section 170(e).

A larger deduction is allowed for certain contributions including:

- Inventory and other property to certain organizations for use in the care of the ill, needy, or infants (see section 170(e)(3)), including qualified contributions of “apparently wholesome food”; and
- Scientific equipment used for research to institutions of higher learning or to certain scientific research organizations (other than by personal holding companies and service organizations). See section 170(e)(4).

For more information on charitable contributions, including substantiation and recordkeeping requirements, see section 170 and the related regulations and Pub. 526. For other special rules that apply to corporations, see Pub. 542.

# Line 20. Depreciation

Include on line 20 depreciation and the cost of certain property that the corporation elected to expense under section 179 from Form 4562. Include amounts not claimed on Form 1125-A or elsewhere on the return. See Form 4562 and the Instructions for Form 4562.
---
# Line 21. Depletion

If the corporation has an economic interest in mineral property or standing timber, it can take a deduction for depletion. More than one person can have an economic interest in the same mineral deposit or timber. In the case of leased property, the depletion deduction is divided between the lessor and the lessee.

See sections 613 and 613A for percentage depletion rates applicable to natural deposits. Also, see section 291 for the limitation on the depletion deduction for iron ore and coal (including lignite).

Attach Form T (Timber), Forest Activities Schedule, if a deduction for depletion of timber is taken. Foreign intangible drilling costs and foreign exploration and development costs must either be added to the corporation's basis for cost depletion purposes or be deducted ratably over a 10-year period. See sections 263(i), 616, and 617 for details.

# Line 23. Pension, Profit-Sharing, etc., Plans

Enter the deduction for contributions to qualified pension, profit-sharing, or other funded deferred compensation plans. Employers who maintain such a plan must generally file one of the forms listed below unless exempt from filing under regulations or other applicable guidance, even if the plan is not a qualified plan under the Internal Revenue Code. The filing requirement applies even if the corporation does not claim a deduction for the current tax year. There are penalties for failure to file these forms on time and for overstating the pension plan deduction. See sections 6652(e) and 6662(f). Also, see the instructions for the applicable form.

- Form 5500, Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan.
- Form 5500-SF, Short Form Annual Return/Report of Small Employee Benefit Plan. File this form instead of Form 5500 generally if there were under 100 participants at the beginning of the plan year.

Note. Form 5500 and Form 5500-SF must be filed electronically under the computerized ERISA Filing Acceptance System (EFAST2). For more information, see the EFAST2 website at www.EFAST.dol.gov.

- Form 5500-EZ, Annual Return of A One-Participant (Owners/Partners and Their Spouses) Retirement Plan or A Foreign Plan. File this form for a plan that only covers the owner (or the owner and spouse) or a foreign plan that is required to file an annual return and does not file the annual return electronically on Form 5500-SF. See the Instructions for Form 5500-EZ.

# Line 24. Employee Benefit Programs

Enter contributions to employee benefit programs not claimed elsewhere on the return (for example, insurance or health and welfare programs) that are not an incidental part of a pension, profit-sharing, etc., plan included on line 23.

# Line 25. Energy Efficient Commercial Buildings Deduction

Complete and attach Form 7205 if claiming the energy efficient commercial building deduction. See the Instructions for Form 7205 for more information. Also, see section 179D.

# Line 26. Other Deductions

production commencing before January 1, 2026 (after December 31, 2015, and before January 1, 2026, for a live theatrical production). This deduction does not apply to any portion of the aggregate cost of the production above $15 million. There is a higher allowance for production in certain areas. See section 181 and the related regulations.

Note. Certain film, television, or live theatrical productions acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017 (for which a deduction would have been allowable under section 181 without regard to the dollar limitation), are qualified property eligible for the special depreciation allowance under section 168(k). See the Instructions for Form 4562.

- Certain business start-up and organizational costs (discussed earlier, under Limitations on Deductions).
- Reforestation costs. The corporation can elect to deduct up to $10,000 of qualifying reforestation expenses for each qualified timber property. The corporation can elect to amortize over 84 months any amount not deducted. See the Instructions for Form T (Timber).
- Insurance premiums.
- Legal and professional fees.
- Supplies used and consumed in the business.
- Travel, meals, and entertainment expenses. Special rules apply (discussed later).
- Utilities.
- Ordinary losses from trade or business activities of a partnership (from Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)). Do not offset ordinary income against ordinary losses. Instead, include the income on line 10. Show the partnership's name, address, and EIN on a separate statement attached to this return. If the amount is from more than one partnership, identify the amount from each partnership.
- Any extraterritorial income exclusion (from Form 8873).
- Any net negative section 481(a) adjustment, or in the case of an eligible terminated S corporation, the ratable portion of any negative section 481(a) adjustment. See Section 481(a) adjustment, earlier.
- Dividends paid in cash on stock held by an employee stock ownership plan. However, a deduction may be taken for these dividends only if, according to the plan, the dividends are:

Do not deduct expenses such as the following.

- Amounts paid or incurred to, or at the direction of, a government or governmental entity for the violation, or investigation or inquiry into the potential violation, of a law. However, see Fines or similar penalties, later.
- Any amount that is allocable to a class of exempt income. See section 265(b) for exceptions.
- Lobbying expenses. However, see exceptions discussed later.
- Attach a statement, listing by type and amount, all allowable deductions that are not deductible elsewhere on Form 1120. Enter the total on line 26.

Examples of other deductions include the following.

- Amortization. See Part VI of Form 4562.
---
# Travel, meals, and entertainment

Subject to limitations and restrictions discussed below, a corporation can deduct ordinary and necessary travel, meal, and non-entertainment expenses paid or incurred in its trade or business. Generally, entertainment expenses, membership dues, and facilities used in connection with these activities cannot be deducted. In addition, no deduction is generally allowed for qualified transportation fringe benefits. Special rules apply to deductions for gifts, luxury water travel, and convention expenses. See section 274 and Pub. 463, for details.

# Travel

The corporation cannot deduct travel expenses of any individual accompanying a corporate officer or employee, including a spouse or dependent of the officer or employee, unless:

- That individual is an employee of the corporation, and
- That individual’s travel is for a bona fide business purpose and would otherwise be deductible by that individual.

# Meals

Generally, the corporation can deduct only 50% of the amount otherwise allowable for non-entertainment-related meal expenses paid or incurred in its trade or business. Meals not separately stated from entertainment are generally not deductible. In addition (subject to exceptions under section 274(k)(2)):

- Meals must not be lavish or extravagant, and
- An employee of the corporation must be present at the meal.

See section 274(n)(3) for a special rule that applies to expenses for meals consumed by individuals subject to the hours of service limits of the Department of Transportation.

# Qualified transportation fringes (QTFs)

Generally, no deduction is allowed under section 274(a)(4) for QTFs provided by employers to their employees. QTFs are defined in section 132(f)(1) and include:

- Transportation in a commuter highway vehicle between the employee's residence and place of employment,
- Any transit pass, and
- Qualified parking.

See section 274 and Pub. 15-B, Employers Tax Guide to Fringe Benefits, for details.

# Membership dues

The corporation can deduct amounts paid or incurred for membership dues in civic or public service organizations, professional organizations (such as bar and medical associations), business leagues, trade associations, chambers of commerce, boards of trade, and real estate boards. However, no deduction is allowed if a principal purpose of the organization is to entertain or provide entertainment facilities for members or their guests. In addition, corporations cannot deduct membership dues in any club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose. This includes country clubs, golf and athletic clubs, airline and hotel clubs, and clubs operated to provide meals under conditions favorable to business discussion.

# Entertainment facilities

Generally, the corporation cannot deduct an expense paid or incurred for a facility (such as a yacht or hunting lodge) used for an activity usually considered entertainment, amusement, or recreation.

# Amounts treated as compensation

Generally, the corporation may be able to deduct otherwise nondeductible entertainment, amusement, or recreation expenses if the amounts are treated as compensation to the recipient and reported on Form W-2 for an employee or on Form 1099-NEC for an independent contractor. However, if the recipient is an officer, director, beneficial owner (directly or indirectly), or other “specified individual” (as defined in section 274(e)(2)(B) and Regulations section 1.274-9(b)), special rules apply.

# Fines or similar penalties

Generally, no deduction is allowed for fines or similar penalties paid or incurred to, or at the direction of, a government or governmental entity for violating any law, or for the investigation or inquiry into the potential violation of a law, except:

- Amounts that constitute restitution or remediation of property,
- Amounts paid to come into compliance with the law,
- Amounts paid or incurred as the result of orders or agreements in which no government or governmental entity is a party, and
- Amounts paid or incurred for taxes due.

No deduction is allowed unless the amounts are specifically identified in the order or agreement and the corporation establishes that the amounts were paid for that purpose. Also, any amount paid or incurred as reimbursement to the government for the costs of any investigation or litigation are not eligible for the exceptions and are nondeductible. See section 162(f).

# Lobbying expenses

Generally, lobbying expenses are not deductible. These expenses include:

- Amounts paid or incurred in connection with influencing federal, state, or local legislation; or
- Amounts paid or incurred in connection with any communication with certain federal executive branch officials in an attempt to influence the official actions or positions of the officials. See Regulations section 1.162-29 for the definition of “influencing legislation.”

Dues and other similar amounts paid to certain tax-exempt organizations may not be deductible. If certain in-house lobbying expenditures do not exceed $2,000, they are deductible.

# Line 28. Taxable Income Before NOL Deduction and Special Deductions

# At-risk rules

Generally, special at-risk rules under section 465 apply to closely held corporations (see Passive activity limitations, earlier) engaged in any activity as a trade or business or for the production of income. These corporations may have to adjust the amount on line 28. (See below.)

The at-risk rules do not apply to:

- Holding real property placed in service by the taxpayer before 1987;
- Equipment leasing under sections 465(c)(4), (5), and (6); or
- Any qualifying business of a qualified corporation under section 465(c)(7).

However, the at-risk rules do apply to the holding of mineral property.

If the at-risk rules apply, adjust the amount on this line for any section 465(d) losses. These losses are limited to the amount for which the corporation is at risk for each separate activity at the close of the tax year. If the corporation is involved in one or more activities, any of which incurs a loss for the year, report the losses for each activity separately. Attach Form 6198, At-Risk Limitations, showing the amount at risk and gross income and deductions for the activities with the losses.

If the corporation sells or otherwise disposes of an asset or its interest (either total or partial) in an activity to which the at-risk rules apply, determine the net profit or loss from the activity by combining the gain or loss on the sale or disposition with the profit or loss from the activity. If the corporation has a net loss, it may be limited because of the at-risk rules.

Treat any loss from an activity not allowed for the tax year as a deduction allocable to the activity in the next tax year.

# Line 29a. Net Operating Loss Deduction

A corporation can use the NOL incurred in one tax year to reduce its taxable income in another tax year. Enter on line 29a the total NOL carryovers from other tax years, but do not enter more than the corporation's taxable income (after special).
---
deductions). Attach a statement showing the computation of the NOL deduction. Complete item 12 on Schedule K.

The following special rules apply.

- If an ownership change (described in section 382(g)) occurs, the amount of the taxable income of a loss corporation that may be offset by the pre-change NOL carryovers may be limited. See section 382 and the related regulations. A loss corporation must include the information statement as provided in Regulations section 1.382-11(a) with its income tax return for each tax year that it is a loss corporation in which an ownership shift, equity structure shift, or other transaction described in Temporary Regulations section 1.382-2T(a)(2)(i) occurs. If the corporation makes the closing-of-the-books election, see Regulations section 1.382-6(b).
- The limitations under section 382 do not apply to certain ownership changes after February 17, 2009, made pursuant to a restructuring plan under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. See section 382(n).

For guidance in applying section 382 to loss corporations whose instruments were acquired by Treasury under certain programs under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, see Notice 2010-2, 2010-2 I.R.B. 251.

- If a corporation acquires control of another corporation (or acquires its assets in a reorganization), the amount of pre-acquisition losses that may offset recognized built-in gain may be limited (see section 384).
- If a corporation elects the alternative tax on qualifying shipping activities under section 1354, no deduction is allowed for an NOL attributable to the qualifying shipping activities to the extent that the loss is carried forward from a tax year preceding the first tax year for which the alternative tax election was made. See section 1358(b)(2).

For more details on the NOL deduction, see section 172 and the Instructions for Form 1139.

# Line 29b. Special Deductions

See the instructions for Schedule C.

# Line 30. Taxable Income

Minimum taxable income. The corporation's taxable income cannot be less than the largest of the following amounts.

- The inversion gain of the corporation for the tax year, if the corporation is an expatriated entity or a partner in an expatriated entity. See section 7874(a).
- The sum of the corporation's excess inclusions from its residual interest in a REMIC from Schedules Q (Form 1066), line 2c, and the corporation's taxable income determined solely with respect to its ownership and high-yield interests in FASITs. See sections 860E(a) and 860J (repealed).

Net operating loss (NOL). If line 30 (figured without regard to the items listed above under minimum taxable income) is zero or less, the corporation may have an NOL that can be carried back or forward as a deduction to other tax years.

Only farming losses and losses of an insurance company (other than a life insurance company) can be carried back. The carryback period for these losses is 2 years. For NOLs that can be carried back, the corporation can elect to waive the carryback period and instead carry the NOL forward to future tax years.

See the instructions for Schedule K, Item 11 for information on making the election to waive the carryback period. See the Instructions for Form 1139 for other special rules and elections.

The NOL deduction for tax year 2023 cannot exceed the aggregate amount of NOLs arising in tax years beginning before January 1, 2018, carried to such year plus the lesser of:

1. The aggregate amount of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, carried to such tax year; or

1. The aggregate amount of NOLs arising in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, carried to such tax year; or

# Line 35. Amount Owed

If the corporation cannot pay the full amount of tax owed, it can apply for an installment agreement online. The corporation can apply for an installment agreement online if:

- It cannot pay the full amount shown on line 35,
- The total amount owed is $25,000 or less, and
- The corporation can pay the liability in full in 24 months.

To apply using the Online Payment Agreement Application, go to IRS.gov/OPA.

Under an installment agreement, the corporation can pay what it owes in monthly installments. There are certain conditions that must be met to enter into and maintain an installment agreement, such as paying the liability within 24 months and making all required deposits and timely filing tax returns during the length of the agreement.

If the installment agreement is accepted, the corporation will be charged a fee and it will be subject to penalties and interest on the amount of tax not paid by the due date of the return.

# Line 37

Enter the amount of any overpayment that should be refunded or applied to next year's estimated tax.

Note. This election to apply some or all of the overpayment amount to the corporation's 2024 estimated tax cannot be changed at a later date.

Direct deposit of refund. If the corporation wants its refund directly deposited into its checking or savings account at any
---
# Instructions for Form 1120

U.S. bank or other financial institution instead of having a check sent to the corporation, complete Form 8050, Direct Deposit of Corporate Tax Refund, and attach it to the corporation's tax return.

# Schedule C. Dividends, Inclusions, and Special Deductions

For purposes of the 20% ownership test on lines 1 through 7, the percentage of stock owned by the corporation is based on voting power and value of the stock. Preferred stock described in section 1504(a)(4) is not taken into account.

Consolidated returns. Corporations filing a consolidated return should see Regulations sections 1.1502-13, 1.1502-26, and 1.1502-27 before completing Schedule C.

Corporations filing a consolidated return must not report as dividends on Schedule C any amounts received from corporations within the consolidated group. Such dividends are eliminated in consolidation rather than offset by the dividends-received deduction.

# Line 1, Column (a)

Enter dividends (except those received on certain debt-financed stock acquired after July 18, 1984—see section 246A) that are:

- Received from less-than-20%-owned domestic corporations subject to income tax, and
- Qualified for the 50% deduction under section 243(a)(1).

Also, include on line 1 the following:

- Taxable distributions from an IC-DISC or former DISC that are designated as eligible for the 50% deduction and certain dividends of Federal Home Loan Banks. See section 246(a)(2).
- Dividends (except those received on certain debt-financed stock acquired after July 18, 1984) from a regulated investment company (RIC). The amount of dividends eligible for the dividends-received deduction under section 243 is limited by section 854(b). The corporation should receive a notice from the RIC specifying the amount of dividends that qualify for the deduction.

Report so-called dividends or earnings received from mutual savings banks, etc., as interest. Do not treat them as dividends.

# Line 2, Column (a)

Enter on line 2:

- Dividends (except those received on certain debt-financed stock acquired after July 18, 1984) that are received from 20%-or-more-owned domestic corporations subject to income tax and that are subject to the 65% deduction under section 243(c), and
- Taxable distributions from an IC-DISC or former DISC that are considered eligible for the 65% deduction.

# Line 3, Column (a)

Enter the following:

- Dividends received on certain debt-financed stock acquired after July 18, 1984, from domestic and foreign corporations subject to income tax that would otherwise be subject to the dividends-received deduction under section 243(a)(1), 243(c), or 245(a). Generally, debt-financed stock is stock that the corporation acquired by incurring a debt (for example, it borrowed money to buy the stock).
- Dividends received from a RIC on debt-financed stock. The amount of dividends eligible for the dividends-received deduction is limited by section 854(b). The corporation should receive a notice from the RIC specifying the amount of dividends that qualify for the deduction.

# Line 4, Column (a)

Enter dividends received on preferred stock of a less-than-20%-owned public utility that is subject to income tax and is allowed the 23.3% deduction provided in sections 244 and 247 (as affected by P.L.113-295, Div. A, section 221(a)(41)(A), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4043) for dividends paid.

# Line 5, Column (a)

Enter dividends received on preferred stock of a 20%-or-more-owned public utility that is subject to income tax and is allowed the 26.7% deduction provided in sections 244 and 247 (as affected by P.L.113-295, Div. A, section 221(a)(41)(A), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4043) for dividends paid.

# Line 6, Column (a)

Enter the U.S.-source portion of dividends that:

- Are received from less-than-20%-owned foreign corporations, and
- Qualify for the 50% deduction under section 245(a). To qualify for the 50% deduction, the corporation must own at least 10% of the stock of the foreign corporation by vote and value.

# Line 7, Column (a)

Enter the U.S.-source portion of dividends that:

- Are received from 20%-or-more-owned foreign corporations, and
- Qualify for the 65% deduction under sections 243 and 245(a).

# Line 8, Column (a)

Enter dividends received from wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that are eligible for the 100% deduction under section 245(b). In general, the deduction under section 245(b) applies to dividends paid out of the earnings and profits of a foreign corporation for a tax year during which:

- All of its outstanding stock is directly or indirectly owned by the domestic corporation receiving the dividends, and
- All of its gross income from all sources is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States.

# Line 9, Column (c)

Generally, line 9, column (c), cannot exceed the amount from the Worksheet for Schedule C, line 9. However, in a year in which an
---
NOL occurs, this limitation does not apply even if the loss is created by the dividends-received deduction. See sections 172(d) and 246(b).

# Line 10, Columns (a) and (c)

Small business investment companies operating under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 must enter dividends that are received from domestic corporations subject to income tax even though a deduction is allowed for the entire amount of those dividends. To claim the 100% deduction on line 10, column (c), the company must file with its return a statement that it was a federal licensee under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 at the time it received the dividends.

# Line 11, Columns (a) and (c)

Enter only dividends that qualify under section 243(b) for the 100% dividends-received deduction described in section 243(a)(3). Corporations taking this deduction are subject to the provisions of section 1561. The 100% deduction does not apply to affiliated group members that are joining in the filing of a consolidated return.

# Line 12, Column (a)

Enter dividends from FSCs that are attributable to foreign trade income and that are eligible for the 100% deduction provided in section 245(c)(1)(A).

# Line 13, Column (a)

Enter the foreign-source portion of dividends that:

- Are received from specified 10%-owned foreign corporations (as defined in section 245A(b)), including, for example, gain from the sale of stock of a foreign corporation that is treated as a dividend under sections 1248(a) and (j); and
- Qualify for the section 245A deduction.

# Line 14, Column (a)

Enter taxable distributions from an IC-DISC or former DISC that are designated as not eligible for a dividends-received deduction. No deduction is allowed under section 243 for a dividend from an IC-DISC or former DISC (as defined in section 992(a)) to the extent the dividend:

- Is paid out of the corporation's accumulated IC-DISC income or previously taxed income, or
- Is a deemed distribution under section 995(b)(1).

# Line 20, Column (a)

Enter the foreign dividends not reportable on line 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, or 13 of column (a). Include the following:

1. Dividends (other than capital gain distributions reported on Schedule D (Form 1120), Capital Gains and Losses, and exempt-interest dividends) that are received from RICs and that are not subject to the 50% deduction.
2. Dividends from tax-exempt organizations.
3. Dividends (other than capital gain distributions) received from a REIT that, for the tax year of the trust in which the dividends are paid, qualifies under sections 856 through 860.
4. Dividends not eligible for a dividends-received deduction, which include the following:
- a. Dividends received on any share of stock held for less than 46 days during the 91-day period beginning 45 days before the ex-dividend date. When counting the number of days the corporation held the stock, you cannot count certain days during which the corporation's risk of loss was diminished. See section 246(c)(4) and Regulations section 1.246-5 for more details.
- b. Dividends received on any share of preferred stock which are attributable to periods totaling more than 366 days if such stock was held for less than 91 days during the 181-day period that began 90 days before the ex-dividend date. When counting the number of days the corporation held the stock, you cannot count certain days during which the corporation's risk of loss was diminished. See section 246(c)(4) and Regulations section 1.246-5 for more details.

# Line 15, Column (a)

Reserved for future use.

# Line 15, Column (c)

Reserved for future use.

# Line 16a, Column (a)

Enter the foreign-source portion of any subpart F inclusions attributable to the sale or exchange by a CFC of stock in another foreign corporation described in section 964(e)(4). This should equal the sum of the amounts reported by the U.S. shareholder on Form(s) 5471, Schedule I, line 1a. (Do not include on line 16a any portion of such subpart F inclusion that is not eligible for the section 245A deduction.)

Instructions for Form 1120
---
# Worksheet for Schedule C, line 9

Keep for Your Records

1. Refigure Form 1120, page 1, line 28, without any adjustment under section 1059 and without any capital loss carryback to the tax year under section 1212(a)(1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Complete lines 10, 11, 12, and 13, column (c), and enter the total here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Multiply line 3 by 65% (0.65) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Add lines 2, 5, 7, and 8, column (c), and the part of the deduction on line 3, column (c), that is attributable to dividends from 20%-or-more-owned corporations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the smaller of line 4 or line 5. If line 5 is greater than line 4, stop here; enter the amount from line 6 on line 9, column (c), and do not complete the rest of this worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the total amount of dividends from 20%-or-more-owned corporations that are included on lines 2, 3, 5, 7, and 8, column (a) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Subtract line 7 from line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Multiply line 8 by 50% (0.50) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Subtract line 5 from line 9, column (c) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Enter the smaller of line 9 or line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Dividends-received deduction after limitation (sec. 246(b)). Add lines 6 and 11. Enter the result here and on line 9, column (c) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.

c. Dividends on any share of stock to the extent the corporation is under an obligation (including a short sale) to make related payments with respect to positions in substantially similar or related property.

5. Any other taxable dividend income not properly reported elsewhere on Schedule C.

If patronage dividends or per-unit retain allocations are included on line 20, identify the total of these amounts in a statement attached to Form 1120.

Line 21, Column (c)

Section 247 (as affected by P.L.113-295, Div. A, section 221(a)(41)(A), Dec. 19, 2014, 128 Stat. 4043) allows public utilities a deduction of 40% of the smaller of (a) dividends paid on their preferred stock during the tax year, or (b) taxable income computed without regard to this deduction. In a year in which an NOL occurs, compute the deduction without regard to section 247(a)(1)(B).

Line 22, Column (c)

Enter the section 250 deduction claimed for foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) and global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). This should equal the sum of the amounts on Form 8993, Part III, lines 28 and 29.

# Schedule J.

# Tax Computation and Payment

# Part I—Tax Computation

Line 1

Multiply taxable income (page 1, line 30) by 21% (0.21). Enter this amount on line 1.

Mutual savings bank conducting life insurance business. The tax under section 594 consists of the sum of (a) a partial tax computed on Form 1120 on the taxable income of the bank, determined without regard to income or deductions allocable to the life insurance department, and (b) a partial tax on the taxable income computed on Form 1120-L of the life insurance department. Enter the combined tax on line 1. Attach Form 1120-L as a schedule (and identify it as such), together with the annual statements and schedules required to be filed with Form 1120-L. See Regulations section 1.6012-2(c)(1)(ii).

Exception for insurance companies filing their federal income tax returns electronically. If an insurance company files its income tax return electronically, it should not include the annual statements and schedules required to be filed with Form 1120-L. However, such statements must be available at all times for inspection by the IRS and retained for so long as such statements may be material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law.

Deferred tax under section 1291. If the corporation was a shareholder in a PFIC and received an excess distribution or disposed of its investment in the PFIC during the year, it must include the increase in taxes due under section 1291(c)(2) (from Form 8621) in the total for line 1. On the dotted line next to line 1, enter “Section 1291” and the amount.

Do not include on line 1 any interest due under section 1291(c)(3). Instead, include the amount of interest owed on Schedule J, Part I, line 9z.

For more information on reporting the deferred tax and interest, see the Instructions for Form 8621.

Increase in tax attributable to partner's audit liability under section 6226. If the corporation is filing Form 8978, Partner’s Additional Reporting Year Tax, to report adjustments shown on Form 8986, Push Out to Partners under IRC 6226(a)(2), they received from partnerships that have been audited and have elected to push out imputed underpayments to their partners, include any increase in taxes due from Form 8978, line 14, in the total for Form 1120, Schedule J, line 1. On the dotted line next to line 1, enter "FROM FORM 8978" and the amount. Attach Form 8978. If Form 8978, line 14, shows a decrease in tax, see the instructions for Schedule J, line 6.

Additional tax under section 197(f). A corporation that elects to recognize gain and pay tax on the sale of a section 197 intangible under the related person exception to the anti-churning rules should include any additional tax due in the total for line 1. On the dotted line next to line 1, enter “Section 197” and the amount. See section 197(f)(9)(B)(ii).

20

Instructions for Form 1120
---
# Instructions for Form 1120

# Line 2

If the corporation had gross receipts of at least $500 million in any 1 of the 3 tax years preceding the current tax year, complete and attach Form 8991. Enter on line 2 the base erosion minimum tax amount from Form 8991, Part IV, line 5e. See section 59A and the Instructions for Form 8991. Also, see Schedule K, Question 22, later.

# Line 3

Enter on line 3 the amount from Form 4626, Alternative Minimum Tax—Corporations, Part II, line 13, if applicable. See the Instructions for Form 4626.

# Line 5

# Line 5a

To find out when a corporation can take the credit for payment of income tax to a foreign country or U.S. territory, see Form 1118, Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations.

# Line 5b

Enter any qualified electric vehicle passive activity credits from prior years allowed for the current tax year from Form 8834, Qualified Electric Vehicle Credit, line 7. Attach Form 8834.

# Line 5c

Use Form 3800 to claim any general business credits. Enter on line 5c the allowable credit from Form 3800, Part II, line 38. See the Instructions for Form 3800.

# Line 5d

Enter any allowable credit from Form 8827, Credit for Prior Year Minimum Tax—Corporations. Complete and attach Form 8827.

# Line 5e

Enter the allowable credits from Form 8912, Credit to Holders of Tax Credit Bonds, line 12.

# Line 6

Add lines 5a through 5e. Enter the total on line 6.

Decrease attributable to partner's audit liability under section 6226. If the corporation is filing Form 8978 to report adjustments shown on Form 8986 they received from partnerships that have been audited and have elected to push out imputed underpayments to their partners, include any decrease in taxes due (negative amount) from Form 8978, line 14, in the total for Form 1120, Schedule J, line 6. On the dotted line next to line 6, enter "FROM FORM 8978" and the amount. Attach Form 8978. If Form 8978, line 14, shows an increase in tax, see the instructions for Schedule J, line 1.

# Line 8

At the end of the 5-year recapture period under section 50(a), enter the increase in tax from Form 4255. See the Instructions for Form 4255.

# Line 9b

Recapture of low-income housing credit. If the corporation disposed of property (or there was a reduction in the qualified basis of the property) for which it took the low-income housing credit, and the corporation did not follow the procedures that would have prevented recapture of the credit, it may owe a tax. See Form 8611.

# Line 9c

Interest due under the look-back method—completed long-term contracts. If the corporation used the percentage-of-completion method under section 460(b) for certain long-term contracts, figure any interest due or to be refunded using the look-back method, described in section 460(b)(2). Use Form 8697 to figure any interest due or to be refunded. See the Instructions for Form 8697. Include any interest due on line 9c.

# Line 9d

Interest due under the look-back method—income forecast method. If the corporation used the income forecast method to depreciate property, it must figure any interest due or to be refunded using the look-back method, described in section 167(g)(2). Use Form 8866 to figure any interest due or to be refunded. See the Instructions for Form 8866. Include any interest due on line 9d.

# Line 9e

Alternative tax on qualifying shipping activities. Enter any alternative tax on qualifying shipping activities from Form 8902.

# Line 9f

Interest/tax due under section 453A(c). Include any interest on deferred tax attributable to certain nondealer installment obligations (section 453A(c)).

# Line 9g

Interest/tax due under section 453(l). Include any interest on deferred tax attributable to dealer installment obligations (section 453(l)).

# Line 9z

Other. Include on line 9z additional taxes and interest such as the following. Attach a statement showing the computation of each item included in the total for line 9z and identify the applicable Code section and the type of tax or interest.

- Recapture of Indian employment credit. Generally, if an employer terminates the employment of a qualified employee less than 1 year after the date of initial employment, any Indian employment credit allowed for a prior tax year because of wages paid or incurred to that employee must be recaptured. For details, see Form 8845 and section 45A.
- Recapture of new markets credit (see Form 8874 and Form 8874-B, Notice of Recapture Event for New Markets Credit).
- Recapture of employer-provided childcare facilities and services credit (see Form 8882).
- Tax and interest on a nonqualified withdrawal from a capital construction fund (section 7518(g)).
- Interest due on deferred gain (section 1260(b)).
- Interest due under section 1291(c)(3). See Form 8621 and the Instructions for Form 8621.
- Recapture of section 45Q carbon oxide sequestration credit (see Form 8933, Part III, line 22).

# Line 11

Include any deferred tax on the termination of a section 1294 election applicable to shareholders in a qualified electing fund in the amount entered on line 11. Subtract the following amounts from the total for line 11.

- Deferred tax on the corporation's share of undistributed earnings of a qualified electing fund. See the Instructions for Form 8621.
---
# Deferred LIFO Recapture Tax (Section 1363(d))

This tax is the part of the LIFO recapture tax that will be deferred and paid with Form 1120-S in the future. To figure the deferred tax, first figure the total LIFO recapture tax. Follow the steps below to figure the total LIFO recapture tax and the deferred amount. Also, see Line 10. Other Income, earlier.

# Steps to Figure the Deferred LIFO Recapture Tax

1. Figure the tax on the corporation's income including the LIFO recapture amount. Complete Schedule J, Part I, lines 1 through 10.
2. Using a separate worksheet, complete Schedule J again, but do not include the LIFO recapture amount in the corporation's taxable income.
3. Compare the tax in Step 2 to the tax in Step 1. The difference between the two is the LIFO recapture tax.
4. Multiply the amount figured in Step 3 by 75% (0.75). The result is the deferred LIFO recapture tax.

# How to Report

Attach a statement showing the computation of each item included in, or subtracted from, the total for line 11. On the dotted line next to line 11, specify (a) the applicable Code section, (b) the type of tax, and (c) enter the amount of tax. For example, if the corporation is deferring a $100 LIFO recapture tax, subtract this amount from the total on line 11, then enter “Section 1363—Deferred Tax—$100” on the dotted line next to line 11.

# Part II—Payments and Refundable Credits

# Line 12

Reserved for future use.

# Line 14

Investment company (RIC) or a real estate investment trust (REIT) on undistributed long-term capital gains included in the corporation's income. Attach Form 2439.

# Line 20b

Credit for federal tax on fuels. Enter the total income tax credit claimed on Form 4136, Credit for Federal Tax Paid on Fuels. Attach Form 4136.

# Line 20c

Reserved for future use.

# Line 20z

Other. Include on line 20z any other refundable credit the corporation is claiming, including the following. Attach a statement listing the type of credit and the amount of the credit.

- Credit for tax withheld under Chapter 3 or 4 of the Internal Revenue Code that is shown on Form 1042-S, Form 8805, or Form 8288-A. Attach the applicable form.
- Credit for tax on ozone-depleting chemicals. See section 4682(g)(2).
- Credit under section 960(c) (section 960(b) for pre-2018 tax years of foreign corporations). If an increase in the limitation under section 960(c) (section 960(b) (pre-2018)) exceeds the total tax on Schedule J, Part I, line 11, for the tax year, the amount of the excess is deemed an overpayment of tax for the tax year. See section 960(c) (section 960(b) (pre-2018)) for more information regarding the circumstances under which such an excess arises.

# Line 22

Elective Payment Election Amount From Form 3800. Enter on line 22 the total net elective payment election amount from Form 3800, Part III, line 6, column (i). See the Instructions for Form 3800.

# Schedule K. Other Information

Enter any estimated tax payments the corporation made for the current tax year. Complete all items that apply to the corporation.

# Question 2

Beneficiaries of trusts. If the corporation is the beneficiary of a trust, and the trust makes a section 643(g) election to credit its estimated tax payments to its beneficiaries, include the corporation's share of the payment in the total for line 14. Enter “T” and the amount of the payment on the dotted line next to the entry space.

# Line 15

If the corporation overpaid estimated tax, it may be able to get a quick refund by filing Form 4466. The overpayment must be at least 10% of the corporation's expected income tax liability and at least $500. File Form 4466 after the end of the corporation's tax year, and no later than the due date for filing the corporation’s tax return (not including extensions). Form 4466 must be filed before the corporation files its tax return. See the instructions for Form 4466.

# Question 3

Check the “Yes” box for question 3 if:

- The corporation is a subsidiary in an affiliated group (defined below), but is not filing a consolidated return for the tax year with that group; or
- The corporation is a subsidiary in a parent–subsidiary controlled group. For a definition of a parent–subsidiary controlled group, see the Instructions for Schedule O (Form 1120).

Any corporation that meets either of the requirements above should check the “Yes” box. This applies even if the corporation is a subsidiary member of one group and the parent corporation of another.

# Line 18

If the corporation had federal income tax withheld from any payments it received because, for example, it failed to give the payer its correct EIN or was otherwise subjected to backup withholding, include the amount withheld in the total for line 18.

# Line 20. Refundable Credits

# Line 20a

Credit from Form 2439. Enter any credit from Form 2439, Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains, for the corporation's share of the tax paid by a regulated.

22

Instructions for Form 1120
---
# Question 5b

List each foreign or domestic partnership in which the corporation, at the end of the tax year, owned directly an interest of 20% or more, or owned, directly or indirectly, an interest of 50% or more in the profit, loss, or capital of the partnership. List each trust in which the corporation, at the end of the tax year, owned directly an interest of 20% or more, or owned, directly or indirectly, an interest of 50% or more in the trust beneficial interest. Indicate the name, EIN (if any), country of organization, and the maximum percentage interest owned, directly or indirectly, in the profit, loss, or capital of the partnership at the end of the partnership tax year, or, for a trust, the percentage interest owned in the trust beneficial interest. List a partnership or trust owned through a disregarded entity rather than the disregarded entity.

Maximum percentage owned in partnership profit, loss, or capital. For the purposes of question 5b, the term “maximum percentage owned” means the highest percentage of interest in a partnership's profit, loss, or capital as of the end of the partnership's tax year, as determined under the partnership agreement, when taking into account the constructive ownership rules, earlier. If the partnership agreement does not express the partner's share of profit, loss, and capital as fixed percentages, use a reasonable method in arriving at the percentage items for the purposes of completing question 5b. Such method must be consistent with the partnership agreement. The method used to compute a percentage share of profit, loss, and capital must be applied consistently from year to year. Maintain records to support the determination of the share of profits, losses, and capital.

# Question 4. Constructive Ownership of the Corporation

For purposes of question 4, the constructive ownership rules of section 267(c) (excluding section 267(c)(3)) apply to ownership of interests in corporate stock and ownership of interests in the profit, loss, or capital of a partnership. If the corporation checked “Yes” to question 4a or 4b, complete and attach Schedule G (Form 1120), Information on Certain Persons Owning the Corporation's Voting Stock.

# Question 5. Constructive Ownership of Other Entities

For purposes of determining the corporation's constructive ownership of other entities, the constructive ownership rules of section 267(c) (excluding section 267(c)(3)) apply to ownership of interests in partnerships and trusts as well as corporate stock. Generally, if an entity (a corporation, partnership, or trust) is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for another entity (corporation, partnership, estate, or trust), the owned entity is considered to be owned proportionately by or for the owners (shareholders, partners, or beneficiaries) of the owning entity.

Corporation A reports in its answer to question 5a that it owns, directly or indirectly, 50% of the voting stock of Corporation D. Corporation A reports in its answer to question 5b that it owns, directly, an interest of 50% in the profit, loss, or capital of Partnership B and owns, directly or indirectly, 50% of the profit, loss, or capital of Partnership C.

# Question 7

Check the “Yes” box if one foreign person owned at least 25% of the total voting power of all classes of stock of the corporation entitled to vote or at least 25% of the total value of all classes of stock of the corporation. The constructive ownership rules of section 318 apply in determining if a corporation is foreign owned. See section 6038A(c)(5) and the related regulations.

Enter on line 7a the percentage owned by the foreign person specified in question 7. On line 7b, enter the name of the owner’s country.

Note. If there is more than one 25%-or-more foreign owner, complete question 7 for the foreign person with the highest percentage of ownership.

# Instructions for Form 1120

23
---
# Foreign person

The term “foreign person” means:

- An individual who is not a citizen or resident of the United States;
- An individual who is a citizen or resident of a U.S. territory who is not otherwise a citizen or resident of the United States;
- Any partnership, association, company, or corporation that is not created or organized in the United States;
- Any foreign estate or trust within the meaning of section 7701(a)(31); or
- A foreign government (or one of its agencies or instrumentalities) to the extent that it is engaged in the conduct of a commercial activity, as described in section 892.

However, the term "foreign person" does not include any foreign person who consents to the filing of a joint U.S. income tax return.

# Owner's country

For individuals, the term “owner's country” means the country of residence. For all others, it is the country where incorporated, organized, created, or administered.

# Requirement to file Form 5472

If the corporation checked “Yes,” it may have to file Form 5472, Information Return of a 25% Foreign-Owned U.S. Corporation or a Foreign Corporation Engaged in a U.S. Trade or Business. Generally, a 25% foreign-owned corporation that had a reportable transaction with a foreign or domestic related party during the tax year must file Form 5472. See the Instructions for Form 5472, for filing instructions and penalties for failure to file.

# Questions 15a and 15b

If the corporation made any payment in 2023 that would require the corporation to file any Form(s) 1099, check the “Yes” box for question 15a and answer question 15b. Otherwise, check the “No” box for question 15a and skip question 15b. See Am I Required to File a Form 1099 or Other Information Return? on IRS.gov.

# Question 19

If the corporation made any payments in 2023 that would require the corporation to file any Forms 1042, Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Source Income of Foreign Persons, and 1042-S, Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding, check the “Yes” box. See the Instructions for Form 1042 and Instructions for Form 1042-S for information regarding who is required to file Forms 1042 and 1042-S and what types of payments are subject to reporting on Forms 1042 and 1042-S.

# Question 21

If the corporation paid or accrued (including through a partnership) any interest or royalty for which a deduction is not allowed under section 267A, check "Yes" for question 21 and enter the total amount for which a deduction is not allowed.

# Item 9

Show any tax-exempt interest received or accrued. Include any exempt-interest dividends received as a shareholder in a mutual fund or other RIC. Also, if required, include the same amount on Schedule M-1, line 7 (or Schedule M-3 (Form 1120), Part II, line 13, if applicable).

# Item 11

Generally, if the corporation has an NOL for tax year 2023, it can elect to waive the entire carryback period for the NOL and instead carry the NOL forward to future tax years. To do so, check the box on line 11 and file the tax return by its due date, including extensions. Do not attach the statement described in Temporary Regulations section 301.9100-12T. Generally, once made, the election is irrevocable.

# Item 12

Enter the amount of the NOL carryover to the tax year from prior years, even if some of the loss is used to offset income on this return. The amount to enter is the total of all NOLs generated in prior years but not used to offset income (either as a carryback or carryover) to a tax year prior to 2023. Do not reduce the amount by any NOL deduction reported on line 29a.

# Question 14

A corporation that files Form 1120 must file Schedule UTP (Form 1120), Uncertain Tax Position Statement, with its 2023 income tax return if:

Extent to which deduction is disallowed. When section 267A applies to interest or royalties paid or accrued pursuant to a hybrid arrangement, it generally disallows a deduction for the amount to the extent that, under the foreign tax law, there is not a corresponding income inclusion (including long-term deferral). However, the deduction is not disallowed to the extent the amount is directly or indirectly included in income in the United States, such as if the amount is taken into account with respect.
---
to a U.S. shareholder under section 951(a) or section 951A. For additional information, see Regulations sections 1.267A-2 through 1.267A-4. For examples illustrating the application of section 267A, see Regulations section 1.267A-6.

# Question 22

partnerships, or proprietorships, and affiliated service groups. See section 448(c) and the Instructions for Form 8990 for additional information.

# Question 25

To certify as a QOF, the corporation must file Form 1120 and attach Form 8996, even if the corporation had no income or expenses to report. If the corporation is attaching Form 8996, check the “Yes” box for question 25. On the line following the dollar sign, enter the amount from Form 8996, line 15.

The penalty reported on this line from Form 8996, line 15, is not due with the filing of this form. The IRS will separately send to you a notice setting forth the due date for the penalty payment and where that payment should be sent.

# Question 23

The limitation on business interest expense applies to every taxpayer with a trade or business, unless the taxpayer meets certain specified exceptions. A taxpayer may elect out of the limitation for certain businesses otherwise subject to the business interest expense limitation. See Question 24. Also, see the Instructions for Form 8990.

Certain real property trades or businesses and farming businesses qualify to make an election not to limit business interest expense. This is an irrevocable election. If you make this election, you are required to use the alternative depreciation system to depreciate any nonresidential real property, residential rental property, and qualified improvement property for an electing real property trade or business, and any property with a recovery period of 10 years or more for an electing farming business. See section 168(g)(1)(F). Also, you are not entitled to the special depreciation allowance for that property. For a taxpayer with more than one qualifying business, the election is made with respect to each business.

Check “Yes” if the corporation has an election in effect to exclude a real property trade or business or a farming business from section 163(j). For more information, see the Instructions for Form 8990.

# Question 24

Generally, a taxpayer with a trade or business must file Form 8990 to claim a deduction for business interest. In addition, Form 8990 must be filed by any taxpayer that owns an interest in a partnership with current-year, or prior-year carryover, excess business interest expense allocated from the partnership.

Exclusions from filing. A taxpayer is not required to file Form 8990 if the taxpayer is a small business taxpayer (defined below) and does not have excess business interest expense from a partnership. A taxpayer also is not required to file Form 8990 if the taxpayer only has business interest expense from these excepted trades or businesses:

- An electing real property trade or business,
- An electing farming business, or
- Certain utility businesses.

Small business taxpayer. A small business taxpayer is not subject to the business interest expense limitation and is not required to file Form 8990. A small business taxpayer is a taxpayer that (a) is not a tax shelter (as defined in section 448(d)(3)), and (b) meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c), discussed next.

# Gross receipts test

For 2023, a taxpayer meets the gross receipts test if the taxpayer has average annual gross receipts of $29 million or less for the 3 prior tax years. A taxpayer's average annual gross receipts for the 3 prior tax years is determined by adding the gross receipts for the 3 prior tax years and dividing the total by 3. Gross receipts include the aggregate gross receipts from all persons treated as a single employer, such as a controlled group of corporations, commonly controlled.

Digital assets are any digital representations of value that are recorded on a cryptographically secured distributed ledger or any similar technology. For example, digital assets include non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and virtual currencies, such as cryptocurrencies and stablecoins. If a particular asset has the characteristics of a digital asset, it will be treated as a digital asset for federal income tax purposes.

# Instructions for Form 1120

25
---
Check the “Yes” box if at any time during 2023 the corporation received (as a reward, award, or payment for property or services); or (b) sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of a digital asset (or any financial interest in any digital asset).

For example, check “Yes” if at any time during 2023 the corporation:

- Received digital assets as payment for property or services provided;
- Received digital assets as a result of a reward or award;
- Received new digital assets as a result of mining, staking, and similar activities;
- Received digital assets as a result of a hard fork;
- Disposed of digital assets in exchange for property or services;
- Disposed of a digital asset in exchange or trade for another digital asset;
- Sold a digital asset; or
- Otherwise disposed of any other financial interest in a digital asset.

The corporation has a financial interest in a digital asset if it is the owner of record of a digital asset, or has an ownership stake in an account that holds one or more digital assets, including the rights and obligations to acquire a financial interest, or owns a wallet that holds digital assets.

The following actions or transactions in 2023, alone, generally do not require the corporation to check “Yes:”

- Holding a digital asset in a wallet or account;
- Transferring a digital asset from one wallet or account the corporation owns or controls to another wallet or account that it owns or controls; or
- Purchasing digital assets using U.S. or other real currency, including through the use of electronic platforms such as PayPal and Venmo.

Do not leave the question unanswered. The corporation must answer "Yes" or “No” by checking the appropriate box. For more information, go to IRS.gov/virtualcurrencyfaqs.

If the corporation disposed of any digital asset which was held as a capital asset, through a sale, trade, exchange, payment, or other transfer, use Form 8949 to calculate the capital gain or loss and report that gain or loss on Schedule D (Form 1120). If the corporation received any digital asset as compensation for services or disposed of any digital asset that was held for sale to customers in a trade or business, it must report the income as it would report other income of the same type.

# Question 28

If the corporation is a member of a controlled group, check the "Yes" box. Complete and attach Schedule O (Form 1120), Consent Plan and Apportionment Schedule for a Controlled Group. Component members of a controlled group must use Schedule O to report the apportionment of certain tax benefits between the members of the group. See Schedule O and the Instructions for Schedule O for more information.

# Question 29

Check the appropriate boxes to indicate if the corporation is required to file Form 4626. If the corporation does not meet the requirements of the safe harbor method, as provided under section 59(k)(3)(A) and Notice 2023-7, 2023-3 I.R.B. 390, available at IRS.gov/irb/2023-03_IRB#NOT-2023-7, for the current year, Form 4626 must be completed and attached to the corporation's return. See the instructions for Form 4626.

# Question 30

Under section 4501, the corporation may be required to file Form 7208, Excise Tax on Repurchase of Corporate Stock, and pay the stock repurchase excise tax if, during the corporation's taxable year, (a) the corporation is publicly traded and repurchased its stock (or a specified affiliate of the corporation acquired the corporation's stock); (b) the corporation is a specified affiliate of an applicable foreign corporation; or (c) the corporation is an expatriated entity with respect to a covered surrogate foreign corporation.

Do not complete a Form 7208 until the date specified in upcoming regulations under section 4501. For additional information, see section 4501 and Announcement 2023-18, 2023-30 I.R.B. 366, available at IRS.gov/irb/2023-30_IRB#ANN-2023-18.

# Question 31

If the answer to question 31 is “Yes,” attach a statement titled “Schedule K Statement of Subchapter K Basis Adjustments” that includes the information required for each tax basis adjustment described in (1) through (4) below. Provide the required information for each partnership where 80 % or more of the capital or profits of the partnership is owned, directly or indirectly, by members of the corporation's controlled group of corporations (as defined in section 1563). If there are unrelated third-party minority partner interests in the partnership, the corporation is not required to include such partners' information on this statement.

1. If the adjusted basis of a partner's partnership interest differs from the partner's share of the partnership's adjusted basis of partnership property by $10 million or more at the end of the tax year and at any other relevant date (for example, at the time of a transfer of a partnership interest or the liquidation of a partnership) provide the partnership's name and TIN, partner's name and TIN, and the amount and allocation of such difference for each partner.
2. If a partnership makes a basis adjustment of $10 million or more at the end of the tax year and at any other relevant date, pursuant to section 743 (including section 743(d)) upon the transfer of a partnership interest in such partnership to a partner that is, directly or indirectly, a controlled group member, provide the partnership's name and TIN, name and TIN of the transferor partner and transferee partner, and the amount and allocation of the basis adjustment.
3. If a partnership makes a basis adjustment that is $10 million or more at the end of the tax year and at any other relevant date made pursuant to section 734 (including section 734(d)) upon the distribution of property to a controlled group member (directly or indirectly), provide the name and TIN of each partnership, the name and TIN of the controlled group member, and a schedule detailing the amount and allocation of the adjustment.
4. If a partnership distributed property, directly or indirectly, to a controlled group member, and the controlled group member's basis in the property under section 732(a) or (b) differs from the partnership's basis in the property immediately before the distribution by $10 million or more at the end of the tax year and at any other relevant date, provide the partnership's name and TIN, the name and TIN of the controlled group member, and the amount and allocation of the basis adjustment.

# Schedule L.

# Balance Sheets per Books

The balance sheets should agree with the corporation's books and records.

Corporations with total receipts (page 1, line 1a plus lines 4 through 10) and total assets at the end of the tax year less than $250,000 are not required to complete Schedules L, M-1, and M-2 if the “Yes” box on Schedule K, question 13, is checked.
---
# Instructions for Form 1120

Corporations with total assets nonconsolidated (or consolidated for all corporations included within the consolidated tax group) of $10 million or more on the last day of the tax year must file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) instead of Schedule M-1. However, see the instructions for Schedule M-1 below. See the separate Instructions for Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) for provisions that also affect Schedule L.

# Line 5c

Include any of the following applicable expenses.

- Entertainment expenses not deductible under section 274(a).
- Meal expenses not deductible under section 274(n).
- Qualified transportation fringes not deductible under section 274(a)(4).
- Expenses for the use of an entertainment facility.

# Line 5

Include on this line:

- State and local government obligations, the interest on which is excludable from gross income under section 103(a), and exempt-interest dividends during the tax year of the corporation.
- Stock in a mutual fund or other RIC that distributed.
- The part of business gifts over $25.
- Expenses of an individual over $2,000, allocable to conventions on cruise ships.
- Employee achievement awards of nontangible or tangible property over $400 ($1,600 if part of a qualified plan).
- The cost of skyboxes.
- Nondeductible club dues.

# Line 26

- The part of luxury water travel expenses not deductible under section 274(m).
- Expenses for travel as a form of education.
- Other nondeductible travel and entertainment expenses.

Some examples of adjustments to report on this line include:

- Unrealized gains and losses on securities held “available for sale,”
- Foreign currency translation adjustments,
- The excess of additional pension liability over unrecognized prior service cost,
- Guarantees of employee stock (ESOP) debt, and
- Compensation related to employee stock award plans.

# Line 7

Report any tax-exempt interest received or accrued, including any exempt-interest dividends received as a shareholder in a mutual fund or other RIC. Also, report this same amount on Schedule K, item 9.

The corporation should include tax-exempt income from forgiven PPP loans on line 7 of Schedule M-1 (if it was included on line 1 of the Schedule M-1), or on Part II, line 25 of Schedule M-3 (Form 1120), column (c) as a negative number (if it was included on line 25 in column (a) as Income per Income Statement).

# Schedule M-1. Reconciliation of Income (Loss) per Books With Income per Return

In completing Schedule M-1, the following apply:

- Corporations with total receipts (page 1, line 1a plus lines 4 through 10) and total assets at the end of the tax year less than $250,000 are not required to complete Schedules L, M-1, and M-2 if the “Yes” box on Schedule K, question 13, is checked.
- Corporations with total assets non-consolidated (or consolidated for all corporations included within the consolidated tax group) of $10 million or more on the last day of the tax year must file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) instead of Schedule M-1.
- A corporation filing Form 1120 that is not required to file Schedule M-3 may voluntarily file Schedule M-3 instead of Schedule M-1. See the Instructions for Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) for more information.
- Corporations that (a) are required to file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) and have less than $50 million total assets at the end of the tax year, or (b) are not required to file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) and voluntarily file Schedule M-3 (Form 1120), must either (i) complete Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) entirely, or (ii) complete Schedule M-3 (Form 1120) through Part I, and complete Form 1120, Schedule M-1, instead of completing Parts II and III of Schedule M-3 (Form 1120).

If the corporation chooses to make adjustments in accordance with section 3.03 of Rev. Proc. 2021-48, it should attach a statement to Schedule M-2 including the following information:

1. The corporation's name, address, and EIN;
2. A statement that the corporation is making adjustments in accordance with section 3.03 of Rev. Proc. 2021-48;
3. The tax year for which tax-exempt income was originally reported, the amount of tax-exempt income that was originally reported for such tax year, and the amount of tax-exempt income being adjusted on Schedule M-2.
---
Paperwork Reduction Act Notice. We ask for the information on these forms to carry out the Internal Revenue laws of the United States. You are required to give us the information. We need it to ensure that you are complying with these laws and to allow us to figure and collect the right amount of tax.

You are not required to provide the information requested on a form that is subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act unless the form displays a valid OMB control number. Books or records relating to a form or its instructions must be retained as long as their contents may become material in the administration of any Internal Revenue law. Generally, tax returns and return information are confidential, as required by section 6103.

# Estimates of Taxpayer Burden

The following tables show burden estimates based on current statutory requirements as of December 2023 for taxpayers filing 2023 Forms 1065, 1120, 1120-C, 1120-F, 1120-H, 1120-ND, 1120-S, 1120-SF, 1120-FSC, 1120-L, 1120-PC, 1066, 1120-REIT, 1120-RIC, 1120-POL, and related attachments. Time spent and out-of-pocket costs are presented separately. Time burden is broken out by taxpayer activity, with reporting representing the largest component. Out-of-pocket costs include any expenses incurred by taxpayers to prepare and submit their tax returns. Examples include tax return preparation and submission fees, postage and photocopying costs, and tax preparation software costs. While these estimates don't include burden associated with post-filing activities, IRS operational data indicate that electronically prepared and filed returns have fewer arithmetic errors, implying lower post-filing burden.

Reported time and cost burdens are national averages and don't necessarily reflect a “typical” case. Most taxpayers experience lower than average burden, with taxpayer burden varying considerably by taxpayer type.

The average burden for partnerships filing Forms 1065 and related attachments is about 60 hours and $5,000; the average burden for corporations filing Form 1120 and associated forms is about 105 hours and $6,700; and the average burden for Forms 1066, 1120-REIT, 1120-RIC, 1120S, and all related attachments is 65 hours and $4,400. Within each of these estimates there is significant variation in taxpayer activity. Tax preparation fees and other out-of-pocket costs vary extensively depending on the tax situation of the taxpayer, the type of software or professional preparer used, and the geographic location. Third-party burden hours are not included in these estimates.

# Table 1 – Taxpayer Burden for Entities Taxed as Partnerships

|Primary Form Filed or Type of Taxpayer|Total Number of Returns (millions)|Average Time (hours)|Average Cost ($)|Average Monetized Burden ($)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|All Partnerships|5.3|60|5,000|8,700|
|Small|4.9|50|3,200|5,200|
|Large*|0.4|200|27,800|50,800|

*A large business is defined as one having end-of-year assets greater than $10 million. A large business is defined the same way for partnerships, taxable corporations, and pass-through corporations. A small business is any business that doesn't meet the definition of a large business.

# Table 2 – Taxpayer Burden for Entities Taxed as Taxable Corporations

|Primary Form Filed or Type of Taxpayer|Total Number of Returns (millions)|Average Time (hours)|Average Cost ($)|Average Monetized Burden ($)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|All Taxable Corporations|2.1|105|6,700|14,900|
|Small|2.0|55|3,600|6,200|
|Large*|0.1|830|53,800|149,000|

*A large business is defined as one having end-of-year assets greater than $10 million. A large business is defined the same way for partnerships, taxable corporations, and pass-through corporations. A small business is any business that doesn't meet the definition of a large business.

# Table 3 – Taxpayer Burden for Entities Taxed as Pass-Through Corporations

|Primary Form Filed or Type of Taxpayer|Total Number of Returns (millions)|Average Time (hours)|Average Cost ($)|Average Monetized Burden ($)|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|All Pass-Through Corporations|5.8|65|4,400|7,500|
|Small|5.7|60|3,800|6,400|
|Large*|0.1|295|37,700|71,800|

*A large business is defined as one having end-of-year assets greater than $10 million. A large business is defined the same way for partnerships, taxable corporations, and pass-through corporations. A small business is any business that doesn't meet the definition of a large business.

Comments. If you have comments concerning the accuracy of these time estimates or suggestions for making these forms simpler, we would be happy to hear from you. You can send us comments through IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224. Do not send the tax form to this address. Instead, see Where To File, earlier, near the beginning of the instructions.
---
# Principal Business Activity Codes

Using the list of activities and codes below, determine from which activity the company derives the largest percentage of its “total receipts.” Total receipts is defined as the sum of gross receipts or sales (page 1, line 1a) plus all other income (page 1, lines 4 through 10). If the company purchases raw materials and supplies them to a subcontractor to produce the finished product, but retains title to the product, the company is considered a manufacturer and must use one of the manufacturing codes (311110–339900).

Once the principal business activity is determined, entries must be made on Form 1120, Schedule K, lines 2a, 2b, and 2c. On line 2a, enter the six-digit code selected from the list below. On line 2b, enter the company's business activity. On line 2c, enter a brief description of the principal product or service of the company.

|Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting|Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting|
|---|
|111100|Oilseed & Grain Farming|
|111210|Vegetable & Melon Farming (including potatoes & yams)|
|111300|Fruit & Tree Nut Farming|
|111400|Greenhouse, Nursery, & Floriculture Production|
|111900|Other Crop Farming (including tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, hay, peanut, sugar beet, & all other crop farming)|
|112111|Beef Cattle Ranching & Farming|
|112112|Cattle Feedlots|
|112120|Dairy Cattle & Milk Production|
|112210|Hog & Pig Farming|
|112300|Poultry & Egg Production|
|112400|Sheep & Goat Farming|
|112510|Aquaculture (including shellfish & finfish farms & hatcheries)|
|112900|Other Animal Production|
|113110|Timber Tract Operations|
|113210|Forest Nurseries & Gathering of Forest Products|
|113310|Logging|
|114110|Fishing|
|114210|Hunting & Trapping|
|115110|Support Activities for Crop Production (including cotton ginning, soil preparation, planting, & cultivating)|
|115210|Support Activities for Animal Production (including farriers)|
|115310|Support Activities for Forestry|

|Mining|Mining|
|---|
|211120|Crude Petroleum Extraction|
|211130|Natural Gas Extraction|
|212110|Coal Mining|
|212200|Metal Ore Mining|
|212310|Stone Mining & Quarrying|
|212320|Sand, Gravel, Clay, & Ceramic & Refractory Minerals Mining & Quarrying|
|212390|Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining & Quarrying|
|213110|Support Activities for Mining|

|Utilities|Utilities|
|---|
|221100|Electric Power Generation, Transmission & Distribution|
|221210|Natural Gas Distribution|
|221300|Water, Sewage & Other Systems|
|221500|Combination Gas & Electric|

|Construction|Construction|
|---|
|236110|Residential Building Construction|
|236200|Nonresidential Building Construction|
|237100|Utility System Construction|
|237210|Land Subdivision|
|237310|Highway, Street, & Bridge Construction|
|237990|Other Heavy & Civil Engineering Construction|

|Specialty Trade Contractors|Specialty Trade Contractors|
|---|
|238100|Foundation, Structure, & Building Exterior Contractors (including framing carpentry, masonry, glass, roofing, & siding)|
|238210|Electrical Contractors|
|238220|Plumbing, Heating, & Air-Conditioning Contractors|
---
# Principal Business Activity Codes (Continued)

|444180|Other Building Material Dealers|485410|School & Employee Bus|523210|Securities & Commodity|541380|Testing Laboratories & Services| | | | |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|444200|Lawn & Garden Equipment & Supplies Retailers|485510|Charter Bus Industry|523900|Other Financial Investment Activities (including portfolio management & investment advice)|541400|Specialized Design Services| | | | |
|445110|Supermarkets & Other Grocery Retailers (except Convenience)|485990|Other Transit & Ground Passenger Transportation|Pipeline Transportation| |541511|Custom Computer Programming Services| | | | |
|445131|Convenience Retailers|486000|Pipeline Transportation|Insurance Carriers and Related Activities|541512|Computer Systems Design Services| | | | | |
|445132|Vending Machine Operators|487000|Scenic & Sightseeing Transportation|524110|Direct Life, Health, & Medical Insurance Carriers|541513|Computer Facilities Management Services| | | | |
|445230|Fruit & Vegetable Retailers|488100|Support Activities for Air Transportation|524120|Direct Insurance (except Life, Health, & Medical) Carriers|541519|Other Computer Related Services| | | | |
|445240|Meat Retailers|488210|Support Activities for Rail Transportation|524290|Other Insurance Related Activities (including third-party administration of insurance & pension funds)|541600|Management, Scientific, & Technical Consulting Services| | | | |
|445250|Fish & Seafood Retailers|488300|Support Activities for Water Transportation|456110|Pharmacies & Drug Retailers|541700|Scientific Research & Development Services| | | | |
|445291|Baked Goods Retailers|488410|Motor Vehicle Towing|456120|Cosmetics, Beauty Supplies, & Perfume Retailers|541800|Advertising, Public Relations, & Related Services| | | | |
|445292|Confectionery & Nut Retailers|488490|Other Support Activities for Road Transportation|456130|Optical Goods Retailers|541910|Marketing Research & Public Opinion Polling| | | | |
|445298|All Other Specialty Food Retailers|488990|Other Support Activities for Transportation|456190|Other Health & Personal Care Retailers|541920|Photographic Services| | | | |
|457100|Gasoline Stations (including convenience stores with gas)|492110|Couriers & Express Delivery Services|457210|Fuel Dealers (including Heating Oil & Liquefied Petroleum)|541930|Translation & Interpretation Services| | | | |
|458110|Clothing & Clothing Accessories Retailers|493100|Warehousing & Storage (except lessors of miniwarehouses & self-storage units)|458210|Shoe Retailers|531110|Lessors of Residential Buildings & Dwellings (including equity REITs)| | | | |
|458310|Jewelry Retailers|531120|Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses) (including equity REITs)|458320|Luggage & Leather Goods Retailers|531130|Lessors of Miniwarehouses & Self-Storage Units (including equity REITs)| | | | |
|459110|Sporting Goods Retailers|512100|Motion Picture & Video Industries (except video rental)|459120|Hobby, Toy, & Game Retailers|512200|Sound Recording Industries| | | | |
|459130|Sewing, Needlework, & Piece Goods Retailers|513110|Newspaper Publishers|459140|Musical Instrument & Supplies Retailers|513120|Periodical Publishers| | | | |
|459210|Book Retailers & News Dealers (including newsstands)|513130|Book Publishers|459310|Florists|513140|Directory & Mailing List Publishers| | | | |
|459410|Office Supplies & Stationery Retailers|513190|Other Publishers|459420|Gift, Novelty, & Souvenir Retailers|513210|Software Publishers| | | | |
|459510|Used Merchandise Retailers|516100|Radio & Television Broadcasting Stations|459910|Pet & Pet Supplies Retailers|516210|Media Streaming, Social Networks, & Other Content Providers| | | | |
|459920|Art Dealers|517000|Telecommunications (including Wired, Wireless, Satellite, Cable & Other Program Distribution, Resellers, Agents, Other Telecommunications, & Internet Service Providers)|459930|Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers|532100|Automotive Equipment Rental & Leasing| | | | |
|459990|All Other Miscellaneous Retailers (including tobacco, candle, & trophy retailers)|532210|Consumer Electronics & Appliances Rental|General Merchandise Retailers| |532310|General Rental Centers| | | | |
|455110|Department Stores|532400|Commercial & Industrial Machinery & Equipment Rental & Leasing|455210|Warehouse Clubs, Supercenters, & Other General Merch. Retailers|Nonstore Retailers| | | | | |
| |Nonstore retailers sell all types of merchandise using such methods as Internet, mail-order catalogs, interactive television, or direct sales. These types of Retailers should select the PBA associated with their primary line of products sold. For example, establishments primarily selling prescription and non-prescription drugs, select PBA code 456110 Pharmacies & Drug Retailers|522110|Commercial Banking|522130|Credit Unions|522180|Savings Institutions & Other Depository Credit Intermediation| | | | |
| | |522210|Credit Card Issuing|522220|Sales Financing|522291|Consumer Lending|522292|Real Estate Credit (including mortgage bankers & originators)| | |
|522299|Intl, Secondary Market, & Other Nondepos. Credit Intermediation|522300|Activities Related to Credit Intermediation|541310|Architectural Services|541320|Landscape Architecture Services| | | | |
| | | | |541330|Engineering Services|621111|Offices of Physicians (except mental health specialists)|541340|Drafting Services|621112|Offices of Physicians, Mental Health Specialists|
|541350|Building Inspection Services|621210|Offices of Dentists|541360|Geophysical Surveying & Mapping Services|621310|Offices of Chiropractors| | | | |
|541370|Surveying & Mapping (except Geophysical) Services| | | | |621320|Offices of Optometrists|621330|Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians)| | |
---
# Principal Business Activity Codes (Continued)

|621340|Offices of Physical, Occupational & Speech Therapists, & Audiologists|624310|Vocational Rehabilitation Services|721120|Casino Hotels|811410|Home & Garden Equipment & Appliance Repair & Maintenance|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|621391|Offices of Podiatrists|624410|Childcare Services|721191|Bed & Breakfast Inns|811420|Reupholstery & Furniture Repair|
|621399|Offices of All Other Miscellaneous Health Practitioners| | |721199|All Other Traveler Accommodation|811430|Footwear & Leather Goods Repair|
|621410|Family Planning Centers|621420|Outpatient Mental Health & Substance Abuse Centers|621491|HMO Medical Centers|621492|Kidney Dialysis Centers|
|621493|Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical & Emergency Centers|621498|All Other Outpatient Care Centers| | | | |
|621510|Medical & Diagnostic Laboratories|621610|Home Health Care Services|621900|Other Ambulatory Health Care Services (including ambulance services & blood & organ banks)|622000|Hospitals|
|623000|Nursing & Residential Care Facilities|624100|Individual & Family Services|624200|Community Food & Housing, & Emergency & Other Relief Services| | |
|721110|Hotels (except Casino Hotels) & Motels| | | | | | |
|811110|Automotive Mechanical & Electrical Repair & Maintenance|811120|Automotive Body, Paint, Interior, & Glass Repair|811190|Other Automotive Repair & Maintenance (including oil change & lubrication shops & car washes)|811210|Electronic & Precision Equipment Repair & Maintenance|
|811310|Commercial & Industrial Machinery & Equipment (except Automotive & Electronic) Repair & Maintenance|721210|RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks & Recreational Camps|721310|Rooming & Boarding Houses, Dormitories, & Workers’ Camps|812111|Barber Shops|
|812112|Beauty Salons|812113|Nail Salons|812190|Other Personal Care Services (including diet & weight reducing centers)|812210|Funeral Homes & Funeral Services|
|812220|Cemeteries & Crematories|812310|Coin-Operated Laundries & Drycleaners|812320|Drycleaning & Laundry Services (except Coin-Operated)|812330|Linen & Uniform Supply|
|812910|Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services|812920|Photofinishing|812930|Parking Lots & Garages|812990|All Other Personal Services|
|999000|Unclassified Establishments (unable to classify)| | | | | | |
---
# Index

# A

Final return 9

Personal holding company 9

Financial asset securitization investment trust (FASIT) 2

Personal holding company tax 21

Personal service corporation 9

Accounting methods 6

Accounting period (Tax Year) 7

Address change 9

Advance payments 10

Affiliated group 23

Amended return 7

Amortization 11

Assembling the return 5

At-risk rules 16

# B

Backup withholding 22

Bad debts 13

Balance sheets 26

Base erosion minimum tax 21, 25

Beneficiaries of trusts 22

Business start-up expenses 11

# C

Capital construction fund (See Merchant Marine capital construction fund)

Closely held corporations 12

Compensation of officers 12

Consolidated return 8, 24

Contributions to reduce public debt 2

Contributions, charitable 14

Corporate alternative minimum tax 21, 26

Cost of goods sold 10

Credits against tax 21

# D

Deductions 11

Depletion 15

Depository methods of tax payment 5

Depreciation 14

Direct deposit of refund 2, 17

Disclosure statement 7

Dividend income 10

Dividends-received deduction 18-20

Dues, membership and other 16

# E

Electronic deposit requirement 5

Electronic filing 3

Employee benefit programs 15

Employer identification number (EIN) 9

Entities electing to be taxed as corporations 2

Estimated tax:

Penalty 5, 17

Estimated tax payments 5

Extension of time to file 4

# F

Farming, corporations engaged in 2

# G

General business credit 21

General Instructions 2

Gross receipts 10

# I

Installment sales 10

Interest due

Interest expense 13

Interest income:

Tax-exempt 24, 27

Taxable 10

# L

LIFO recapture:

Tax on 22

Limited liability companies 2

Lobbying expenses, nondeductibility 16

# M

Merchant Marine capital construction fund:

Deduction for contributions 17

Tax on nonqualified withdrawal 21

# N

Name change 9

Net operating loss 16, 24

# O

Other deductions 15

Other income 10

Other taxes 21

Overpaid estimated tax 22

# P

Partnership income (loss) 15

Passive activity limitations 12

Penalties 6, 17

Pension, profit-sharing, etc. plans 15

# S

Salaries and wages 12

# T

Tax issues, unresolved 2

Tax-exempt securities 27

Taxes and licenses 13

Total assets 9

Travel, meals, and entertainment 16

# U

Uniform capitalization rules 11

# W

What’s New 1

When to file 3

Where to file 4

Who must file 2

Who must sign 4

# Worksheets:

Schedule C 20